*Ambros 2008, Emplacing a Pilgrimage The Ōyama Cult and Regional Religion in Early Modern Japan*

## Ambros 2008, Communities and establishments relied on pilgrims for income
- Ferrymen at crossing points along the Tama and Sagami rivers came to rely on pilgrims for income. Villagers set up small inns providing meals and lodging for weary travelers, especially during the summer festival at Ōyama.
- These inns were established solely to accommodate pilgrims during the summer festival because there was no other substantial traffic through the villages. Many of these establishments were seasonal, operating only during the summer festival and providing temporary by-work for peasants hired from nearby villages. 
- By the latter half of the eighteenth century, towns in Sagami and Musashi had come to rely financially on the pilgrimage traffic to Ōyama.
- Evidence found in other sources, such as records of disputes and accidents involving station towns and river crossings, also suggests that the regional economy relied on pilgrimage travel to Ōyama.(150)

^c8371a
#### Adverse affects that minimized pilgrim travel were halted
The situation was no different along other routes apart from the Tōkaidō as pilgrims tried to minimize expenses along the way to Ōyama. By 1840, local communities along the major routes from Kai and Musashi had come to charge Ōyama pilgrims tolls to finance the repairs of roads and bridges, and overcharged them for ferry services, horses, palanquins, meals, and lodging. Consequently, pilgrims avoided these routes. This prompted local village heads and representatives of innkeepers from eleven villages in Tama District in Musashi and Aikō and Ōsumi Districts in Sagami to issue an agreement to cease collecting tolls for roads, cut the fees for ferries and bridges in half, and keep prices for horses, carriages, meals, and lodging within reasonable limits. (152)
#### Commerce from pilgrimage became an essential part of the community
The pilgrimage to Ōyama also began to have a tangible impact on the regional communications system—both for overland and sea routes. The strongest impact of the pilgrimage was witnessed during the summer festival of Sekison between 6/28 and 7/17, when even villagers who normally did not cater to travelers operated inns, ferries, and other services along the roads to Ōyama. Even though the local transportation system was not created for and did not serve exclusively the pilgrimage to Ōyama, the **pilgrimage contributed greatly to the expansion of the existing system**, which, by the late eighteenth century, became almost synonymous with Ōyamamichi in the Kantō region. (159-160)

#### Pilgrimage did not have a negative economic effect on their home regions
Most pilgrimages to Ōyama took place during a distinct season before the harvest and involved only a few members of the community, allowing the rest to maintain their daily routine as usual so that village or neighborhood life was hardly disrupted. Moreover, the pilgrimages were primarily undertaken for the good of the entire community rather than for personal reasons. Upon their return, pilgrims brought everyone amulets for protection from harm and (160) illness. Therefore, pilgrims were not perceived as escapees from their home communities but rather as emissaries traveling on the community’s behalf. **Usually, neither the local communities nor bakufu authorities sought to prevent such journeys,** unless pilgrims either were behaving in wasteful ways or extended their journeys to too many sacred sites. (161)

#### Because pilgrims largely came from fraternities or parishes, they were not nukemairi
The regional make-up of the pilgrims reflects the overall distribution of Hachidayū’s parishes, which were concentrated in southeastern Musashi, Edo, and Shimōsa; therefore, the highest number of visitors (about 85 percent) came from these regions. (1)
#### Distinguishes the difference in pilgrims, difference in authorities reactions
Long pilgrimages or impoverished travelers run counter to orderly ideals of bakufu while pilgrimages like Oyama reinforced social structures
#### Economic incentive example → Oyama pilgrimage cults (Ambros)
pilgrims increased commerce by creating demand for services (Ambros)
^8e74f5
#### What is Oyama?
a medieval yamabushi site that was understood as an earthly manifestation of Maitreya’s Tus.ita Heaven, changing into a complex Shingon academy and popular pilgrimage site in the early modern period.

#### Chapter 2 & 3: Ōyama’s institutional complexities. 
A typical premodern cultic site, Ōyama presented an integrated mixture of traditions that were inseparable but not always entirely harmonious. Ōyama comprised Buddhist, Shinto, yamabushi, and oshi institutions of various sectarian affiliations.
.... the Shingon Buddhist clergy assumed control over Ōyama, maintained its hold over this sacred site, and simultaneously turned it into a major regional Kogi Shingon academy. As a regional Shingon academy that was necessary to train clerics for the growing number of temples established by the temple registration system of early modern Japan, Ōyama was able to become a leader in a regional network of Kogi Shingon temples even though it had few branch temples of its own. As a sacred site, Ōyama was controlled institutionally and ritually by the Shingon clergy, whose twentyplus subtemples on the mountain cooperated in the administration of the site, led by the abbot of Hachidaibō, its main Shingon temple. 
... The growing popularity of the site and the influx of pilgrims enhanced the Shingon temples’ wealth but also created rifts among them. These factors contributed to the gradual weakening of the Hachidaibō abbots’ control over the site. (14)

#### Need of funds
Until the end of the seventeenth century, Ōyama’s institutions relied largely on significant donations by the shogunate, but from the early eighteenth century, when such donations were becoming less plentiful, Ōyama’s institutions were financed by direct donations from the population of the Kantō region. (55)

#### Chapter 3: the development of the oshi system at Ōyama
In the first half of the seventeenth century, the oshi, managed large parishes of devotees throughout the Kantō region. By the nineteenth century, about 160 oshi were administering one million parish households across the entire Kantō-Tōkai region with an average of about 6,000 households per oshi. Some of the most powerful oshi had as many as 12,000 parishioner families. These parishes were different from those of Buddhist temples in the temple registration system, which might ideally have had one hundred to a thousand parish households with obligatory ties to the temple through the performance of funerary and memorial rites. **Instead of providing funerary rites, oshi distributed amulets and collected yearly donations from their parishioners, housing them in inns at Ōyama when they came on pilgrimage.** In order to lessen competition from inns in nearby villages, Ōyama’s oshi were specially licensed by the local Shingon clergy at Ōyama, but in the early nineteenth century many oshi began to seek additional Shinto licenses from the Shirakawa house, a sacerdotal lineage associated with the imperial court in Kyoto. These Shirakawa licenses, together with a growing interest in national learning among the oshi, became important factors in the disassociation of kami and Buddhas in the Meiji period. (15)

#### Chapter 4: the development of the pilgrimage to Ōyama
how Ōyama’s ritual specialists, clergy and the oshi, jointly **managed the pilgrimage cult**, which became centered on the summer festival: The clergy officiated at rituals within the Buddhist precinct, i.e., Ōyama’s principal cultic sites, whereas the oshi lodged pilgrims, acted as intermediaries between pilgrims and clerics, and maintained active relationships with their parishioners through parish rounds to distribute amulets and collect first-fruit donations. By the early nineteenth century, Ōyama had become a highly complex and active site whose influence extended across the entire Kantō region. The Ōyama cult had successfully adapted its economy from one based primarily on state patronage during the medieval period to one based on the donations from a broad social base—its parishioners in villages and urban areas. (15)

#### **Key players in growing pilgrimage popularity**
The oshi were the key players in Ōyama’s early modern transformation into a highly popular pilgrimage destination and again in Ōyama’s transformation from a Buddhist into a Shinto site during the early Meiji period. (84)
At many sites, including the Ise Shrines, Mt. Fuji, Mt. Haruna, Enoshima, Mt. Mitake, and Ōyama, they were called oshi— pronounced onshi at Ise—which literally means “venerable master” and originally appears to be short for kitōshi (prayer master). In the midHeian period, the term oshi was first used at Buddhist temples and later at shrine-temple multiplexes near the capital, such as the Iwashimizu Hachiman Shrine.4 Subsequently, the oshi associated with the Ise and Kumano Shrines developed into a distinct category of religious specialist beginning in the late-Heian and medieval periods. **By the early modern period, oshi had become indispensable because they contributed to the growth of pilgrimage cults.** Ōyama was one such regional pilgrimage site at which a complex oshi system developed from yamabushi and shrine priests during the early modern period. 
Ōyama’s oshi, who descended from its medieval yamabushi and shrine priests, as well as local artisans and merchants, gradually developed into a distinct form of religious professional in the early modern period. (85)
Ōyama owed its popularity to its oshi, who developed parishes in the Kantō region. Beginning in the late seventeenth century, the oshi expanded the mountain’s most important asset—customary parishioners. Using similar methods as the Ise onshi, the Ōyama oshi made rounds to their parishioners to collect first-fruit donations (hatsuho)— originally, the first harvested crops, this later became an equivalent amount in cash. The Ōyama oshi, like their Ise counterparts, also distributed gifts and amulets and **provided housing for pilgrims who came to Ōyama**. The oshi were usually not celibate and passed their profession and parishes on to their heirs, just as merchants, artisans, or performers would pass on their family trade. 
As in the case of Ise, the expanding number of Ōyama oshi reflects a pattern of growth until the mid-eighteenth century, which then leveled off until the mid-nineteenth century. These fluctuations are more a reflection of the increasing professionalization of the oshi rather than of a decline in Ōyama’s popularity. The oshi entered into a symbiotic relationship with the Shingon clergy, who guaranteed their status when faced with competitors. To limit the pool of contenders eligible to become oshi and thus curb the competition among them, **the Shingon clergy provided the oshi with licenses that distinguished those living in Ōyama’s monzenmachi from residents of neighboring villages keen on sharing the profits of a growing pilgrimage industry.** In return, the oshi served as liaisons between pilgrims and the Shingon Buddhist clergy on the mountain. The Shingon clergy also employed a number of villagers for the administration of Ōyama and for the performance of certain ritual functions, which contributed to status distinctions between the oshi.(86)

## Chapter 5: The impact of the Ōyama cult on the Kantō region as a popular pilgrimage destination. 
During the early modern period, some lengthy pilgrimages, such as mass pilgrimages to the Ise Shrines or solitary pilgrimages by impoverished travelers around the island of Shikoku, had a reputation for running counter to the orderly social ideals of the bakufu—they represented in some respects what Victor Turner termed an antistructure to everyday life. **Pilgrimages to Ōyama, however, reinforced rather than undermined social structures.** The pilgrimage shaped the regional identity and inspired numerous woodblock prints, popular travel guides, and other works describing the ritual calendar of Edo residents and travel in the Kantō-Tōkai region. Overland and sea-borne pilgrimage routes developed that linked Ōyama to the Kantō region. 
**Since pilgrims from Edo took only about one week to complete the pilgrimage, and pilgrims from the northeastern provinces in the Kantō took only about twice as long, the bakufu posed little opposition to the pilgrimage.** Moreover, most pilgrims traveled in confraternities based in rural villages or urban neighborhoods, or organized around professional groups or businesses. Such pilgrims did not abscond from their communities; instead, they were usually dispatched as annual representatives. **Confraternity members pooled their funds to finance the pilgrimage, and therefore the pilgrims were not a burden on communities along the route but fueled the regional economy.** (15-16)

##### Pilgrimages from Edo shorter, bakufu not opposed. 
But they were to longer ones
A joint pilgrimage to Ōyama and Mt. Fuji was such a common practice that the bakufu issued a prohibition against pilgrimages to Mt. Fuji that included a visit to Ōyama.50 The authorities frowned upon the practice not because it opposed pilgrimages to Ōyama but because a dual pilgrimage extended the length of the journey unduly in the bakufu’s eyes. (164)
The steady, community-building aspects of the pilgrimage to Ōyama reinforced values of social harmony; hence, the bakufu placed few obstacles in its way. **The few regulations that pertained to it were not so much meant to limit the pilgrimage to Ōyama but more to ensure that pilgrims did not extend their pilgrimages unduly and maintained order on their journeys.** They were either issued to prevent pilgrims to Mt. Fuji from continuing their already lengthy journey to Ōyama, or to curb the competition faced by station towns from other villages near the Tōkaidō, or to deal with times of crisis, such as in the 1860s when sea routes near Edo could have brought not only harmless pilgrims but also insurgents from the north.82 In contrast to the negative attitude of some domains toward the pilgrimages to the Ise Shrines and to Shikoku, neither the bakufu nor the pilgrims’ home communities considered the journey to Ōyama subversive. Ōyama was a regional pilgrimage that was relatively short and did not require travel to distant provinces. Pilgrims from Sagami, Musashi, and Edo did not have to cross any checkpoints and could travel freely. (173)

#### Pilgrims fueled regional economy.
Often represented in literature and art, the pilgrimage during the summer festival made Ōyama famous and affected the local economy and transportation systems. (147)
Other historical evidence, such as oshi records and stone markers, clearly indicates Ōyama’s sustained importance for the local economy and transportation infrastructure throughout the eighteenth century. Beginning around 1700, the oshi developed large parishes outside Sagami Province and nearby rural areas of Musashi, first in Edo and then in the remaining Kantō provinces. Large parishes from distant regions created an influx of pilgrims who were unfamiliar with the territory and needed food, lodging, and other services on the road in Sagami and Musashi. This **created the need for an expanded infrastructure** such as inns, ferries, rental of palanquins and horses, and clearly marked pilgrimage routs (148)
Beginning in the Kyōhō era (1716–1735), villages on pilgrimage routes and pilgrimage confraternities began to set up stone markers identifying the way to Ōyama at points where secondary roads forked off from major highways such as the Tōkaidō and Kōshū Kaidō, or at intersections with other secondary roads. **Ferrymen at crossing points** along the Tama and Sagami rivers came to rely on pilgrims for income. Villagers set up small **inns providing meals and lodging** for weary travelers, especially during the summer festival at Ōyama. (150)

##### Villages ensure pilgrims use their routes
The situation was no different along other routes apart from the Tōkaidō as pilgrims tried to minimize expenses along the way to Ōyama. By 1840, local communities along the major routes from Kai and Musashi had come to charge Ōyama pilgrims tolls to finance the repairs of roads and bridges, and overcharged them for ferry services, horses, palanquins, meals, and lodging. Consequently, pilgrims avoided these routes. This prompted local village heads and representatives of innkeepers from eleven villages in Tama District in Musashi and Aikō and Ōsumi Districts in Sagami to issue an agreement to cease collecting tolls for roads, cut the fees for ferries and bridges in half, and keep prices for horses, carriages, meals, and lodging within reasonable limits.22 By the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, the pervasive regional importance of the seasonal pilgrimage to Ōyama could be seen in the work of woodblock artists, who produced images in the newly emerging genre of landscape prints, and by writers of popular fiction, travel guides, and gazetteers. (152-153)
#### The type of place Oyama was
As a pilgrimage site, Ōyama was consciously constructed as a remote place far from human habitation; in fact, it was a place marked by its proximity to a major urban center and by great accessibility—pilgrims visiting the mountain, Ōyama’s innkeepers traveling through the region to collect donations and distribute amulets, and Shingon clerics from temples in the region training at Ōyama in order to return to their home temples after the completion of their training period. In its ordinariness, the Ōyama cult occupied a middle ground that was neither at the center of political power nor at the margins of society. **The cultic site that initially survived on patronage by the bakufu came to depend almost exclusively on the donations’ broad social base—villagers, townspeople, and low-ranking officials.** The Ōyama cult was not used by the bakufu to mobilize human resources or to suppress resistance to the regime, but neither was it a movement to subvert the existing social order. The cult flourished precisely because it was based on and upheld the social structures that shaped village and urban life. Therefore, it can serve as a useful case study of mainstream early modern religion and society. (17-18)

#### Shogunate restricted illigitimate religious institutions
For example, in 1662 and 1673 Edo authorities required religious itinerants to show documents proving their affiliation with a Buddhist temple before they were hosted at a lay devotee’s home, which was a common practice on fundraising and proselytizing rounds, or allowed to settle in a neighborhood (90)
In the 1660s and 1680s, the Edo authorities also sought to curb the unauthorized establishment of Buddhist temples, the private installation of Buddhist icons, and the performance of rituals for fundraising purposes by itinerant preachers and yamabushi.	
#### Oyama got support from bakufu
In a social climate that questioned the official status of autonomous religious figures, Ōyama’s Shingon clergy found support from bakufu authorities during the dispute in the 1660s. (90)
As Hiromi Maeda has argued, shrine ranks obtained through the Yoshida became a common status symbol for small shrines in eastern Japan (92)



#### How Oshi interacted with pilgrims
Pilgrims were divided into those who had and those who did not have oshi. Not only were innkeepers to avoid luring their neighbors’ customers into their inns and to refrain from engaging in price wars, they were also obligated—as were noodle shop owners— to determine whether potential customers had customary ties to a specific oshi before catering to them. If a pilgrim had ties with an oshi, only that oshi could house or provide meals for him. If a group of pilgrims consisted of patrons of different oshi, each of these oshi could house the entire group as long as they could lay claim to at least one parishioner among the group. If the group contained no fixed parishioners, anyone could house them. Violators were punished with stiff fines.34 This suggests that the claim to be an oshi hinged primarily on an innkeeper’s claim to have a customary parish. (96)

#### Spread of Oshi
Unlike funeral parishes, oshi parishioners did not tend to live in the same village but in villages that were often separated from Ōyama by great distances. Initially oshi developed ties with villagers closer to Ōyama. Extant records indicate that the oshi first developed parishes in Sagami Province, where Ōyama was located, and then gradually spread to neighboring provinces such as Musashi, Kazusa, Awa, and the city of (96)
Edo and finally throughout the Kantō region. The earliest extant parish registers and certificates of parish sales between 1665 and 1730 cover areas in the vicinity of Ōyama. They are concentrated in western Sagami (Ōsumi, Aikō, Kōza, and Miura Districts), including farming villages and coastal fishing villages. There are also records of parishes outside Sagami, in Musashi and Kazusa Provinces, and very limited evidence of parishioners in Edo from around 1700. (97)

Licensing system
<mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">	??? page 99~</mark>
## Conclusion of *Emergence of the Ōyama Oshi*, 
From *Ambros 2008, Emplacing a Pilgrimage The Ōyama Cult and Regional Religion in Early Modern Japan*
#### Economic changes created oshi
The return to ancient ways envisioned by these Nativist oshi was not simply a return to medieval Ōyama but a mythical, pre-Buddhist site. They did not seek a reinstatement of Ōyama’s shugendō but a pure Shinto tradition. They attempted to reject their status as oshi and re-define themselves as Shinto shrine priests. Ironically, however, they took for granted the highly popular Ōyama cult, which had resulted from the oshi’s symbiotic relationship with the Shingon clergy during the early modern period.
It had been their role as oshi that contributed to the spread of the Ōyama cult in the Kantō region in the seventeenth and eighteenth cen-turies. Over the course of the seventeenth century, the oshi developed primarily out of yamabushi who had lost much of their authority to the Shingon clergy on the mountain in the first decade of the seventeenth century. Eventually, the tradition of mountain asceticism largely disap- peared from Ōyama in the second half of the seventeenth century and left the former yamabushi to seek new means of income, forcing them to run inns and develop parishes throughout the Kantō region. **These parishes, from which most of Ōyama’s pilgrims came, became the single most important source of income for Ōyama**. The system spread from areas near Ōyama across the entire Kantō region. It was these oshi who sustained the bonds between parishioners and the mountain through making yearly rounds of their parishes and providing accommodations for pilgrims. Despite their conflict-laden genesis, the oshi were not inconstant opposition to Ōyama’s Shingon temples. They developed cus-tomary networks with temples to handle pilgrims and received licenses from the head Shingon temple, Hachidaibō, which helped them to dis-tinguish themselves from their competing innkeepers in neighboring villages. Another reason why the oshi did not voice a united opposition to the temples was that they were in fact a fairly diverse group with different heritages and levels of wealth. Some oshi were in the employ of Hachidaibō and therefore shared the temples’ interests. It was only in the mid-nineteenth century that several wealthy oshi began to seek affiliation with external sources of authority such as the Shirakawa House and to engage in anti-Buddhist rhetoric culled from the Nativist Hirata school. This rhetoric eventually led to friction between the Shingon temples and the oshi, and provided the basis for the disassociation of kami and Buddhas in the early Meiji period.

#### Created an oshi system to manage and grow pilgrims
**As travel increased in the early modern period, pilgrimages to various sacred sites became popular throughout Japan. Religious specialists like the oshi contributed to the growth and continued popularity of these pilgrimage centers.** Rather than relying on sporadic, haphazard pilgrims, (page 115)

**the oshi and their parishes stabilized the sites by forming systems of pilgrimage management**. That is why the most popular early modern pilgrimage centers such as sacred mountains (e.g., Ōyama, Mt. Fuji, and Tateyama) or famous temples and shrines (e.g., Zenkōji and Ise) had oshi or comparable systems. The concrete organizational structures differed from site to site. While Ōyama’s oshi were controlled by the Kogi Shingon clergy, Mt. Fuji’s oshi were organized in self-governing guilds, and at Zenkōji, low-ranking Buddhist clerics (shūto) at subtemples serving as inns were controlled by the Tendai abbot of Zenkōji. Like Ōyama’s oshi, all these religious professionals also owned parishes, collected donations, and distributed amulets. **These proselytizing innkeepers provided the pilgrimage sites with a comparatively stable base of income from their parishioners. They also helped to stem competition and strife by limiting the pool of contenders who could participate in the system and by strictly regulating the interactions with pilgrims and parishioners.** Even though these religious specialists were usually not officially in charge of administering the cultic site, *(page 116)*
**they represented the key to success for the majority Japan’s early modern pilgrimage cults.**


### Shogunal support
#### Spiritual support in return for Tokugawa regime's backing
Once the Shingon clergy took control of Ōyama by order of the Tokugawa regime in the early seventeenth century, only fully ordained Kogi Shingon clerics could officiate at rituals within the monastic precinct, particularly at those dedicated to Fudō Myōō, the main image of worship in the central hall. In return for the Tokugawa regime’s backing, Ōyama’s Shingon clergy was expected to provide spiritual support to the Tokugawa shogunate. Ōyama’s temples had performed a similar function since before the early modern period. **The Ashikaga shogunate commissioned prayers for the safety and peace of the realm on several occasions.** Likewise Ōyama developed ties with the Hōjō in Odawara and performed prayers for their victory in battle.1 Similarly, the Tokugawa shogunate also harnessed Ōyama. Tokugawa Ieyasu designated Ōyama as a sacred place offering protection to Edo in 1605—local tradition even has it that he visited Ōyama in person, but there is no supporting evidence for this claim.2 Therefore, Ōyama’s temples carried out rites for the protection of the state to ensure the continuation of the shogunal regime and the reign of the emperor. After the death of Tokugawa Ieyasu, Ōyama came to hold a special service dedicated to his deified spirit, Tōshō Gongen, on the seventeenth of each month.3 Even in the late eighteenth century, daily rituals included prayers for good fortune for the bakufu, peace of the nation and the prosperity of the people, the growing spread of Buddhism, and the successful training of the Shingon clergy. The prayers highlighted the roles of Ōyama’s purported founder, Rōben, and its restorer, Gangyō, in the establishment of the cult but also (118)
named Tokugawa Ieyasu’s “firm orders”—in other words, the legislation that assured the authority of the Shingon clergy—as the essential basis for the continued ability of the clergy to carry out such prayers.
As a reward for state-protection rites, Ōyama’s Shingon clergy received shogunal backing in the management of the Ōyama cult and financial assistance for reconstruction projects. In the first decade of the seventeenth century, the shogunate recognized the Shingon clergy’s authority over the site, granted the Shingon temples land, and funded the reconstruction of the entire complex. The close contact with the bakufu lasted through the seventeenth century. In the 1630s, visits of shogunal representatives were often related to a massive reconstruction project, which the bakufu funded and assisted by providing craftsmen. The shogunate contributed 10,000 ryō to another full-scale reconstruction project in the 1640s and granted 200 ryō and 5,000 pieces of lumber for repairs in the 1670s. (119)

#### Waning shogunal support
Eventually, financial support from the bakufu began to wane. While the Tokugawa regime continued to recognize its initial land grant to the Shingon temples, its support for repairs slowly dwindled. In 1692, the Hachidaibō abbot Kūben was **desperate for funds** and pointed to the customary patronage of the bakufu and the clergy’s responsibility to perform prayers on behalf of the shogunate. He hoped to motivate the bakufu to provide financial support to repair the wooden temple buildings that had become **so dilapidated that the monks found it difficult to continue their residency**. Following Kūben’s persistent pleas, the Tokugawa regime reluctantly sponsored large-scale repairs. Ōyama received 4,251 ryō and 48,630 pieces of lumber for reconstruction of the entire complex. **For the rest of the early modern period, the financial support for such projects from the bakufu steadily decreased**. After the precinct suffered severe damage during an earthquake in the early 1700s, the shogunate donated 2000 ryō and 15,000 pieces of lumber. When the shrines on the summit were destroyed by a fire about twenty years later, the shogunate contributed 200 ryō. However, in similar circumstances in the 1770s, the shogunate only granted 1.7 ryō. When the entire precinct was destroyed by an earthquake in the 1850s, the shogunate—itself under financial pressure—donated less than one ryō and instead gave Ōyama’s clerics permission to raise funds in the Kantō region, but in a (119)
region devastated by the quake this proved to be a difficult task.7 Rituals dedicated to the benefit of the shogunate continued, but they no longer constituted the primary focus. Ōyama clerics and oshi filled the gap by appealing to a broad constituency as a popular pilgrimage cult. (120)

#### Using pilgrimage to raise funds
Ōyamamairi, the pilgrimage to Ōyama, gained great popularity in the early modern period. Scholars have given various reasons for Ōyama’s ability to attract such large numbers of pilgrims. In his study on early modern travel, for instance, Constantine Vaporis notes the agricultural significance of the pilgrimage to Ōyama. He suggests that peasants in the Kantō regions visited Ōyama for rainmaking rites (rainmaking and thanksgiving for rain) and therefore the authorities were not likely to prohibit pilgrimages to Ōyama.8 Yet the Ōyama cult was not only famous for agricultural rites. It attracted large numbers of pilgrims from Edo and from coastal villages, who were merchants, artisans, fishermen, and boat operators not engaged in agriculture. Tamamuro Fumio has argued that it was the cult of Fudō with its focus on healing and protection from fire that made Ōyama so vastly popular in the early modern period.9 Hartmut O. Rotermund has highlighted Ōyama’s importance as a center of healing, especially from smallpox.10 Suzuki Shōsei has argued that pilgrims were drawn to Ōyama for different reasons depending on the region where they lived: cultivators from Sagami and Musashi Provinces worshipped its agricultural deity; pilgrims from the seacoast in Awa and Izu Provinces came for protection at sea; some pilgrims from Sagami, Musashi, Shimōsa, and Kazusa Provinces came to practice austerities; other pilgrims from Sagami came to pacify the spirits of the dead; while pilgrims from Edo sought good fortune and protection from disasters.11 Appropriately, the mountain was also known as Nyoizan (Mt. Wish Fulfillment) because it promised to fulfill any kind of wish.
Ōyama’s wide appeal is reflected in premodern texts meant to advertise the Ōyama cult. The medieval Ōyamadera engi (1532) already promoted pilgrimages to Ōyama as means to solve any imaginable kind of problem: ... (120)
The second most common problem addressed in the Ōyama Fudō reigenki is fire, usually through amulets and talismanic swords obtained on pilgrimages to Ōyama. Protection from fire was particularly important to urban residents in Edo, where fires periodically destroyed whole sections of the city. (121)
... **Ōyama became so popular precisely because it could accommodate such a wide range of concerns**.


#### If Ōyama was renowned for such powers since medieval times, why did the pilgrimage to Ōyama not gain much momentum until the late seventeenth century?
The The Ōyama Fudō reigenki, in fact, contains examples of two types of pilgrimages to Ōyama: those to Ōyama Fudō, which occurred throughout the year, and those to Ōyama during the summer festival of Sekison. The first type comprised primarily thanksgiving pilgrimages and spontaneous pilgrimages motivated by special wishes often related to protection from agricultural disasters or to healing. As in the medieval period, pilgrims continued to be motivated by spontaneous need in the early modern period. As with illness, agricultural disasters (121)
such as droughts or pests gave the pilgrims a sense of urgency that often could not wait until the next Sekison summer festival. In Story vi.7, Shichibei from Madarame Village in Sagami Province prayed to Fudō in the Fourth Month of 1770 to save his sprouting soybeans from mice. After a successful harvest, he immediately went to Ōyama to offer his first fruits.17 
These pilgrimages were directed only at Ōyama Fudō, enshrined at Ōyama’s Main Hall on the central slope, to which pilgrims could gain access regardless of the season or their gender. According to the Ōyama Fudō reigenki, these pilgrimages often emphasized physical mortification and strong devotion to Fudō. Pilgrims who wanted to affect the fulfillment of a wish tended to emphasize in their pilgrimages an ascetic ideal and strong faith. As John Eade and Michael Sallnow have observed, pilgrimage is often marked by an “overtly transactional ethic” according to which “physical suffering and penance are exchanged for material and spiritual favours.”18 If worshippers were particularly devout, they sometimes chose to make monthly pilgrimages. Story vi.9 in the Ōyama Fudō reigenki gives the example of Hanzaemon from Ochiai Village, who chose to make monthly pilgrimages to Ōyama Fudō. A pilgrim who wanted to make a difficult wish come true would go on a retreat and fast for seven days. Story ii.2 explains: “In days of old, some people fasted for 7 or even 21 days, but, lately, perhaps because people’s energy has declined, sick people and those without much strength come and wish to stay overnight. It has become a rule that the practice is limited to three days and three nights or two nights and three days. No one has been allowed to fast for seven days. Therefore, those who wish to continue for seven days have to take a break after two nights and three days.” (122)

#### Targeting women increased pilgrimages
The second type of pilgrimage, which appears more frequently in documents, was less focused on asceticism than on ritual purity and combined the cult of Fudō with the cult of Sekison. This type of pilgrimage was limited to the summer festival of Sekison, which was held between 6/28 and 7/17, during which the summit was open to male pilgrims. Pilgrimages during Sekison’s festival are well documented not only because of the high number of pilgrims but also because pilgrims usually traveled in small groups, namely pilgrimage confraternities, which occasionally left behind detailed records of their journeys. These pilgrimage confraternities gave the pilgrimage social and economic stability. Village or neighborhoods pooled their funds to dispatch several members of the community as representatives to Ōyama. These representatives would commission rituals on behalf of the community at Ōyama and return with amulets for the entire village or neighborhood. According one story in the Ōyama Fudō reigenki, villagers from a neigh- (123)
borhood in Odawara went on a pilgrimage to Ōyama at the start of the summer festival in 1746. The group had brought back a golden seal of Sekison for Zenjirō, a devoted Nichiren adherent, who venerated only the 30 central deities of the Nichiren School. Zenjirō accepted the group’s ordinary souvenirs but did not enshrine the amulet and discarded it irreverently. Suddenly, there was a loud noise as if the roof of his house were pelted with thousands of stones. The noise continued for several days until Zenjirō retrieved the amulet and enshrined it properly. In commemoration of the event, people from the neighborhood and nearby villages made their pilgrimages every year during the first days of Sekison’s festival.20 Zenjirō’s story also points to another important aspect of the pilgrimage during the summer festival: Sekison and the summit were associated with taboos against ritual pollution. Hence Zenjirō was punished for failing to enshrine the amulet properly. Because of its focus on ritual purity, the pilgrimage during the summer festival was more attractive to men than women, who were considered ritually impure and barred from the summit. **By contrast, the pilgrimage to Fudō attracted both men and women.** Even though women did not have access to the summit, they could visit the Main Hall of Fudō on the central slope. In fact, villages near Ōyama depended on pilgrims to Ōyama Fudō once the yearly Sekison’s summer festival had passed. Therefore, these villages objected vehemently to the removal of the sacred statue of Fudō during disassociation of kami and Buddhas in the early Meiji period. If Fudō were removed, they argued, there would be no pilgrims during the rest of the year.21 However, the summer festival drew much larger numbers of pilgrims than sporadic pilgrimages to Fudō throughout the year. It is not surprising then that only 21 (16.8 percent) of Ōyama Fudō reigenki’s 125 stories, particularly those about Fudō rather than Sekison, deal with women’s connections with the Ōyama. (124)