*Blacker 1984, The Religious Traveller in the Edo Period*
#Blacker_1984


there was an intimate relationship between travel and pilgrimage. They were to a large extent synonymous-a fact that is readily apparent from a quick perusal of travel permits and diaries. Authorities were much more tolerant of pilgrimage than other types of travel because of its sacred nature as a religious act; and, therefore, travel often fell under that rubric. (4)
The findings of this study will reveal a great disjunction between government regulations on travel and the social reality at which they were aimed. Countless persons from all social ranks defied governmental authority by traveling without official permission despite the volumes of legislation intended to regulate or restrict movement. Such legislation appears to have been ·merely a reaction to the social reality that existed and thus, ip. a sense, was little more than sumptuary legislation. The social, economic, and political implications of this interpretation necessarily recast our view of Tokugawa society.
This study, furthermore, will show that government policy regarding travel was, on the whole, positive rather than repressive; the application of regulations was far more flexible than suggested by statute. This growing flexibility in a system that originally had been more rigid allowed for-and in fact promoted-the increasing mobility that characterized Tokugawa Japan from the eighteenth century on.
As we look at Tokugawa society through the prism of travel and communications, we will have to discard certain assumptions and viewpoints. For example, legalistic or authoritarian views of Tokugawa Japan assume that government by nature seeks to be intrusive, to regulate closely all aspects of society. With regard to the regulation of physical mobility, it has been asserted that, in the Tokugawa era, "free movement was severely restricted."12
The historical record will reveal that the situation was far more complicated than this. While the legal structure did not change dramatically during the early modern period, the application and interpretation of the law most certainly did; the government reacted to and tried to keep pace with the changing economic and social landscape.(5)
#### Traveler a figure outside society
The new sekisho erected by the Tokugawa were not, as a rule, in spots which hindered pilgrimage to any of the popular shrines and in any case were not intended to exact money in tolls. 593
But a mere improvement in roads and hotels is not enough to account for the extraordinary increase, among classes of society which had hitherto scarcely stirred out of their villages or towns, in the desire to 'go on pilgrimages'. Why should farmers and merchants, not to speak of craftsmen and samurai, wish to embark on what was still an arduous, uncomfortable, expensive and often hazardous journey to a distant holy place? 594

I suggest that it is to this ancient figure, and to the archetypal 'image' that he projects on Japanese minds, that we must first look for an answer to our question. 594
The wanderer is therefore a sacral figure, a vehicle for a divinity….
Theyugyosha is on the contrary a holy figure, the vehicle or messenger of a god, kami no shisha, even himself a disguised god and dispenser of blessings. 597

This archetypal traveller, familiar though he may have been for so many centuries, is a figure essentially outside society. He is not only outside the social order; he carries, too, the implication of being not fully human. 602
First, the pilgrim assumes, during the short period of his journey, the same ambivalence that we have seen in the taboo figure of the wanderer. He, too, is either a disguised god or a polluted outcast. He, too, is outside the social order. 603

#### Bakufu's negative view of peasants
Earlier we saw that travel was made easier during the Edo period by the improved roads and hostelries and the disappearance of pirates and toll gates. It was, however, hindered by other obstacles: the increasingly **harassing restrictions imposed by the han authorities on a custom which appeared in their eyes frivolous, useless, extravant and immoral**.
By absenting themselves for several weeks to walk to Ise, the farmers neglected their proper duty and caused a fall in production. Some han seemed to have raised no objection if farmers chose the nokanki or idle period of year, after the annual tax had been paid, for their journey. 604

By abandoning their proper tasks they were failing in their duty as human beings, flouting the moral way which it was part of their humanity to follow. It follows that the pilgrim has deliberately put himself beyond the pale of human society. He is a temporary outcast, and hence endowed with all the attributes of the outcast. He is dirty, contaminated, 'other'. 605

To the han authorities the henro may have seemed dirty and lazy dropouts, playing no useful part in proper human society and hence constituting a threat to its good order and stability. To the people in the villages through which the pilgrims passed, however, a very different image was presented. To them the pilgrims appeared as potential disguised divinities. 605-606

#### Peasant's more positive view of pilgrims
Because the pilgrim might be Kobo Daishi in disguise. 606

Both faces of the ambivalence, the divinity and the outcast, are outside human society. They are not part of the intricate web of relationships by which men and women in the Edo period were joined together. They were outside and irrelevant to thegorin or Five Relations, by which Neo-Confucian doctrine sought to order the society proper to human beings. The ascetic wanderer acknowledged no feudal lord, and had cut his ties with his parents, his wife, his elder and younger brothers and his friends. Nor was he part and parcel of the Four Orders, samurai, farmers, craftsmen and merchants, which formed the layers of the vertical society essential to the Edo human cosmos. Without an occupation recognized as part of the human world, without the moral ties, either above or below, which placed him in a context necessary to a fully human life, he was a being from another world. Once outside, once relegated to that strange space which has no structure or familiar pattern, which is an unmeasurable unknown, then it is only too easy for a man to slip from one face of the ambivalence to the other. The disguised divinity may, with only a hairbreadth movement, turn into the polluted outcast. 607

#### Severe han restrictions increased interest in freedom of travel
**In Edo society, as the restrictions of the han became ever greater, as the volume of edicts prohibiting you from doing this or that became more minute, the image of the traveller to another realm beckoned with an insistence never felt when 'home' was a safe refuge from a featureless unknown.** The featureless unknown becomes a new world with a sacred goal, alight with all the symbols of a paradise beyond. Hence not only does the pilgrim project the image of the holy wanderer to the outside world. His own motive in setting out on the journey likewise reflects something of the same pull which took the yugyosha out of the social order, of an escape from the world and everything it stands for into a state of detachment and blissful freedom from ties. 608