
*Nosco 1996, Review of Breaking Barriers Travel and the State* 
##### Vaporis fails to ask why permits became more easily obtained and more flexible
It is principally in the last third of the book that Vaporis turns to the question of what one may glean from travel regarding the relationship between the state and society or, more precisely, between the state and individuals of different classes. Here the work's contribution is less clear, leaving important questions not just unanswered but unasked. Vaporis examines the **relative ease with which individuals were able to obtain travel permits** during the second half of the Tokugawa period. Ostensibly, these transit permits and the more flexible passports were only available to individuals who traveled for official and commercial purposes or for religious pilgrimage. Literary sources make clear, however, that **by the end of the seventeenth century passports were readily available to those using the pretext of pilgrimage for recreational travel**, including such purposes as sightseeing and romantic liaisons. Vaporis further indicates the **extent to which the examination of such permits by barrier officials had grown increasingly lax** during the eighteenth century; these factors contributed on the one hand to the emergence of a domestic travel industry and on the other hand to the secularization of pilgrimage.
##### Fails to question why the state's aspiration for control became weak
It is here that one might have expected more from Vaporis. One of the more compelling questions in the study of early modern Japan concerns the aspiration of the Tokugawa state to exercise absolute control over land and individuals. This aspiration was remarkably successful during the Tokugawa period's first half century but appears to have declined during the remaining two hundred years. In various ways, such as its laissez-faire economic policies, its retreat from the enforcement of repressive religious policies and sumptuary legislation, and its broader cultural liberality after an initial outburst of ideological production, the Tokugawa state apparently came to recognize the limits of its control over what individuals thought, said, or did and relaxed its vigilance over essentially unenforceable legislation in numerous areas. This retreat on the part of the state was uneven, however, as it sought from time to time to tighten what it recognized as- its lax enforcement of existing policies and legislation.
##### Fails to question if state's fluctuating  absolutist ambitions were similar to attitude toward commoner's freedom to travel
One would like to know whether the state's attitude toward individual travel followed this waxing and waning of the state's absolutist ambitions. Further, can one discern in the state's permissive policies toward travel additional evidence of the rise of a private sphere in Tokugawa society? It is unfair for me to chastise an author for not addressing questions of particular interest to myself, but it is precisely the excellence of Vaporis's documentation of travel and transport that whets one's appetite for deeper levels of analysis. Accordingly, with great admiration for what he has accomplished, I was nonetheless left with the hope that Vaporis will one day address some of these remaining questions in further work on the subject.