*The Nationalization of Confucianism: Academism, Examinations and Bureaucratic Governance in the Late Tokugawa State*
#Paramore_2012 

examines the causes and effects of the shogunate’s establishment of a state academy and examination system from 1788 onward.... The role of state academicians in reforming Tokugawa processes of governance, suggesting that they effected the creation of a new structural engagement between knowledge and power which had surprisingly “modern” characteristics.

##### Confucianism reforms in Tokugawa was used to make government more socially responsive
Countering arguments that Neo-Confucian political thought encouraged social stasis and authoritarianism in early modern East Asia, I argue that reforms advanced by Confucians in the late Tokugawa state were usually designed to open government structures to bottom-up input in an **attempt to make government more socially responsive**. (25)

##### Confucianism integrated into government in 1790s
While the period of the Tokugawa shogunate is often considered the high point of Confucianism in Japan, it was not until the 1790s that the central state directly integrated Confucianism into the bureaucratic apparatus of government or used a Confucian-based examination system in bureaucratic appointments.

The nationalization of Confucianism was therefore closely linked to the attempt to create a partly professionalized and meritocratic bureaucracy in order to strengthen state administrative systems in the face of international change and increasing internal fi nancial complexity. .
The main historical signifi cance of this reform was that it sought to
increase central state power and to open decision-making processes to a broader array of people, allowing bottom-up input into governance. In other words, it shows how increasing state power in an early modern feudal context, **rather than simply increasing authoritarianism,** can also be seen as an (26)
**attempt to generate more socially engaged, inclusive, and responsive governance.** It reveals that reforms designed to increase centralization and state power should not necessarily be interpreted as attempts to strengthen topdown power, or institute authoritarianism, but can instead be seen as means of effecting bottom-up input into governance. (27)

##### Argues that the previous Kansai reforms are viewed in an a light that makes them seem overly conservative.
Although the Kansei reforms (Kansei kaikaku) and the so-called Kansei Prohibition of Heterodoxy (Kansei igaku no kin) are commonly mentioned in the secondary literature, they tend to be presented primarily as a reactionary movement that sought to limit freedom of thought and the development of new ideas.5 This has led to the Kansei reforms being seen as a conservative reaction rather than a positive reform attempt. (27)

argues that: that institutional (28) change was a core part of the Kansei reform agenda and that the Sho¯heizaka (academy) played a major role in that change through reforming appointment and organizational systems within the bureaucracy.
The most recent Japanese scholarship, however, argues that the historiography of the late Tokugawa period has been unfairly skewed toward valorizing these intellectual movements that later became associated with the Meiji Restoration (such as Mito and National Learning) at the expense of taking seriously the achievements of Sho¯heizaka scholars in shogunal reform. (29)

##### This research helps to re-view the developoment of Japan
This new research presents us with an opportunity to (re)integrate Tokugawa Confucianism back into the story of the development of the Japanese state. This is why the new scholarly direction indicated by Makabe’s work is a signifi cant, and, as Nakada Yoshikazu has referred to it, “epoch-making” break from past scholarship on this area. (31)

##### Sorai Confucianism focused on sovereign and vassal relationship
Japanese Confucian thinkers, particularly those of the Sorai school, dominant in the years Koga Seiri was educated in his home, Saga han, unerringly defended feudalism, not simply because it was the system of their masters, but because, as they correctly pointed out, it was the system of rule that Confucius himself had idealized in his praise of the ancient sage kings.21 Confucian political thought should be based on the sanctity of fi lial and loyal relations between sovereign and vassal as the basis of good government. These were individual relations of loyalty. The Tokugawa shogunate and the han states beneath it often acted administratively, for instance in terms of the fl ow of communication, through individual vassal relationships.22 This was usually seen as a positive. This focus on individual relations was regarded as giving feudalism its humane character.23 (32)

##### Ritsuzan against relying on sole individuals, wanted more professional structure
Koga Seiri and Shibano Ritsuzan, however, were highly critical of the reliance on lone individuals inherent in this system. Their primary recommendation for the reform of administrative governance was the establishment of a more professional bureaucratic structure. (32)
For Koga, the complexity of modern governance was more than any individual could handle alone and demanded that bureaucratic structures be professionalized: “Those who stand above the people, who have the responsibility of governing the country and succoring the masses, due to the weighty nature of their positions, could not carry out even one of their tasks if it was left all to the personal knowledge of just this one individual.”25 Alone, no one, no matter how talented, could possibly have enough knowledge to succeed. (33)

Shibano:  “The prince is like a boat, the masses like the water. The water can support a boat well, but can also overturn it. The masses can live well under the rule of a prince, or they can destroy him.” The winds and waves of the masses rise when the sentiments of the masses are obstructed. For this reason, since antiquity, making sure the sentiments of the masses are communicated has been the primary business of governance. “Communicating the sentiments of the masses” means ensuring the sovereign is informed about the suffering of the masses.27 (34)
**Argues for more communication through lines of command**

##### Koga argues against superfluous appointments, function over heredity.
Koga hit out at these superfl uous appointments, which he brazenly stated displayed the ruler’s “weakness of will.”35 The maintenance or extension of appointments should be directly related to functional requirements of governance. Unnecessary functions should be abolished so the number of functionaries could be limited. Koga’s statement that “the requirements of governance may rise or fall depending on the times and situations, and this may then require the appointment of more or fewer bureaucrats,” argued that appointment should be based on administrative demand.36 This implied something he later made abundantly clear, that “superfl uous offi cers” who had no useful function, appointed by “weak-willed” leaders out of a misplaced sense of personal allegiance, would need to be cut..... 
**This was a radical suggestion in a society and state based on the principles of hereditary right to position and status.** (37) 

In contrast to most Tokugawa Confucians, the Three Kansei Professors, and those who followed them into leadership positions in the Sho¯heizaka (50) Academy, enjoyed a level of institutionalized integration into the machinery of government that allowed them to infl uence structural political reform to an unprecedented extent. Their reformist vision of bureaucracy had the most comprehensive impact on the machinery of shogunate governance. While accepting the inherent feudal nature of shogunal government, they argued cogently for a more professional approach to the fl ow of information in government, and through the elevation of the Sho¯heizaka Academy effected a more important role for knowledge (practical as well as ethical) and advice in government. Through state institutionalization of the academy, and the installation of an examination system affecting bureaucratic appointment, they were able to institutionalize a form of intellectual indoctrination in their approaches to knowledge and government that outlasted their own tenures within the shogunate.

##### The roots of the Kansei orthodoxy... were not autocratic or totalitarian. (52-53)
In this sense, both the “bureaucracy” and the “knowledge” sought by the reformers, although heavily infl uenced by Chinese ideas, were in no way attempts to recreate either Chinese bureaucratism or the construction of the kind of Neo-Confucian orthodoxy associated with, for instance, the Ming dynasty’s examination system. In fact, Shibano, Koga, and Bito shared the open hostility of critical Qing commentators to the idea of a form of selection based purely on literary orthodoxy. Their original vision was a mix of feudal and bureaucratic, military and literary, practical and ethical approaches to the construction of good governance. This vision, however, had a transnational pedigree. It arose from, and can be seen as part of, a trans– East Asian discourse on the role of knowledge in government. (51)
It has been argued that in feudalism, the fact that hereditary status was not linked to knowledge systems perhaps made feudal societies more fl exible in picking up new constellations of outside knowledge. But in late Tokugawa Japan, an increase in the role of bureaucratic elements of government, albeit within the feudal system, was clearly designed to effect more engagement by the state with specialized knowledge and the systematic processing of knowledge in a more compartmentalized, specialized manner. In other words, bureaucratization appears to have aided the development of more “modern” forms of information and knowledge management, government organization, and appointment. This topic is worthy of deeper investigation through further research on these late Tokugawa reforms and the operation of the later Sho¯heizaka Academy. (52)

##### Osaka merchant values affected shogunate
The introduction of a standardized practical approach to Confucian knowledge (the Sho¯heizaka “orthodoxy”) was conducted by Confucians who came from independent schools in Osaka and the regional han, and who had themselves little hereditary standing. It was their way to use their often peripheral Confucian political ideas to infl uence the hereditary feudal government. In other words, the creation of “orthodoxy” was for them a step in creating an institutional structure whereby thinking people of little hereditary status, and often from the periphery of Japan, could affect the central government: bottom up rather than top down. (53)
