
*Roberts 1998, Mercantilism in a Japanese Domain_ The Merchant Origins of Economic Nationalism in 18th-Century Tosa

Another case is especially interesting because it reveals a public space of political discussion that could be communicated to the lord by the accumulation of a number of individual petitions. (129
##### Petition to draw pilgrims
The scabbard maker Zenpachi's petition gives another example of how this thought was not merely a means of arguing self-interest, but was a convincing. (141) way of understanding the economy and the lord's and people's roles within it.15 Not one of Zenpachi's ten suggestions had personal economic interest at stake, yet most were inspired in whole or in part by bullionist concerns and phrased in terms of kokueki. (142)
.....
Zenpachi also urged the lord to promote religious tourism to Tosa's famous Godaisan temple by making entry into the country easy for foreigners at the temple's festival time. If this were done and the pilgrims increased, "every year great amounts of foreign gold and silver would drop into the country, working eternally for the prosperity of the country and providing all of the people with a living." (142)
*Zenpachi, Shinyohoji cho sayashi Heizaemon no segare (9/3/1759), TNK, vol. 121, ff. 96th106th.*
##### People seeing the overall benefit to the region 
What was common to these and many other petitions was a vision of Tosa as a single economic unit, the welfare of which was dependent mainly upon commercial concerns - most often export industries - and cash flow within the domain. (142)
##### People engaged in commerce saw the economic side of things
These documents reveal that merchants, by whom I mean not only townsmen (chonin) but also port merchants and other people significantly engaged in commerce, had already explored a wide range of ideas through the rhetoric of kokueki thought. The term kokueki appears commonly in the petitions of townsmen, even in the earliest petitions of the year 1759, playing a key role in an extensively developed rhetoric imagining a commercial economy for the domainal country of Tosa within a Japan of many countries. **Using the rhetoric of kokueki, they argue variously for** import protections, development of exports and import substitutes, the creation of a transportation and marketing infrastructure outside of the domain, **the ecouragement of tourism**, and even free trade economics, in short all of the basic elements of kokueki thought as defined by Fujita, and then some. (135)
#### Villagers make changes to ensure pilgrims continue to use their routes
The situation was no different along other routes apart from the Tōkaidō as pilgrims tried to minimize expenses along the way to Ōyama. By 1840, local communities along the major routes from Kai and Musashi had come to charge Ōyama pilgrims tolls to finance the repairs of roads and bridges, and overcharged them for ferry services, horses, palanquins, meals, and lodging. Consequently, pilgrims avoided these routes. This prompted local village heads and representatives of innkeepers from eleven villages in Tama District in Musashi and Aikō and Ōsumi Districts in Sagami to issue an agreement to cease collecting tolls for roads, cut the fees for ferries and bridges in half, and keep prices for horses, carriages, meals, and lodging within reasonable limits. (152)