**March's review of *Contents tourism in Japan: pilgrimages to ‘sacred sites’ of popular culture***
	Contents tourism is defined as travel behaviour motivated fully or partly by narratives, characters, locations and other creative elements of popular culture forms, including film, television dramas, manga, anime, novels and computer games. The concept has deep historical roots in Japan at the intersection of tourism, pilgrimage and popular culture. Pilgrimage dating back to the eighth century is identified as the earliest example of contents tourism. Contents tourism is defined by the motivation of the tourist not by the destination. Even a nondescript place captured in a narrative can become a popular destination with emotional pulling power.

##### Tourism started as pilgrimage in Japan
One researcher who has argued for the retrospective definition of past tourism behavior as contents tourism is Masubuchi Toshiyuki, who cites Edo period (1603–1868) visits to sites relating to haiku poet Matsuo Bashō and even earlier examples from the Nara period (710–794) as early forms of contents tourism. (9)
Pilgrimage has deep historical connections to the development of tourism. In many premodern societies, religious pilgrimage was one of the few opportunities that ordinary people had to leave their homes and travel. Catering to pilgrims by providing food, lodging, and entertainment at religious sites was the foundation of much of the modern Japanese tourism industry. (20)

The term pilgrimage is often used to describe tourist behavior by fans. Ian Reader writes:
	Pilgrimage and related terms such as junrei and tirthyatra […] contain notions of crossing, sacred geographies, movement between states of being, the integral nature of travel and worship, and of journeys to get to and be in places that are considered holy. They further indicate that pilgrimage involves both the places themselves and the practices engaged in on the way to and at them.4
“Places that are considered holy” may refer not only to religious sites, but also to sites containing non-religious objects of veneration. (19)

The existence of both pilgrimage and contents tourism is ultimately determined by the behaviors and motivations of travelers. Graburn writes:
	The traveler does not have to decide between being a **tourist or a pilgrim, for both modes are part of the larger whole;** neither does he have to undergo sharp changes of attitude from awestruck (19)
	reverence to playful secularity, for they are intertwined parts of one cultural structure. … [W]e may distinguish between pilgrims and tourists in general by stating that pilgrims are those who normally display an appropriately reverent, spiritual attitude at marked religious sites, with a continuity in belief in what those historical sites stand for; tourists may be equally interested in the site but display a morally different attitude, without historical spiritual continuity. (20)

##### Pilgrimage to tourism was gradual
In summarizing this early period, there are two trends: travel began among members of the ruling classes in the medieval period and then spread to ordinary people in the early modern age; and the purpose of travel **gradually changed from “worship” to “pleasure**.”4 Furthermore, during the Edo period a tradition grew of “combining travel and work as part of the educational and maturing process.”5 Samurai traveled to learn swordsmanship and gain worldly experience, while the children of commoners were sent to work for employers away from their hometowns.
Ishimori, “Popularization and commercialization of tourism in early modern Japan,” 183