#Thal_2005 
##### competitive age
Growing trade fostered fierce competition - among priests and diamyo seeking prosperity for their domains, among producers and merchants seeking lucrative contracts, among religious rivals seeking the donations and prayer commissions of would-be worshippers. The god Konpira became both resource and benefactor, as people sought to build and capitalize upon the pilgrimage at the same time that they prayed to the god for health and wealth. Amid these market forces, Mt. Zozu grew from a center of local trade to become an important link among the emerging entrepreneurial elites of western Japan. By the mid-eighteenth century, Konkoin's priests would obtain national recognition and economic security as the imperially sponsored, the exclusive site of a redefined Konpira. The object of prayers from people across the social and economic spectrum, Konpira became for many a god of money, symbolically as well as miraculously powerful in the increasingly fierce competition of a market-oriented age. (Thal 2005, 73)

##### Realization of revenue from worshippers throughout the region
(Thal 2005, 73)

##### Developed attractions to draw people to both the shrines and the town.
The priests of Konpira, like priests of other wouldbe pilgrimage siges, simultaneously devoloped the attractions of both the god and the town to boost the economic viability of the sacred domain. Three times a year - - they hosted markets in the town to coincide with rituals on the mountain. Early in the seventeenth century, Konkoin had sponsored sumo wrestling matches, then theatrical performances, to raise money for the temple. Due to these early promotions, Konpira remained one of the few places in the country with a theater well into the eighteenth century. Drawn by the opportunities available during the festival and market months, both performers and theatergoers flocked to the town. 
Entertainment thus proved greatly attractive, whether sponsored by Konkoin or provided by local entrepreneurs. In the 1653, three years before Matsudaira Yorishige wrote his original tale laying the historical groundwork for pilgrimage to thte site, Konkoin issued its first recorded attempt to restrict unofficial entertainments, announcing regulations on the renting of rooms and, in occordance with the shogunate policy, placing a ban on gambling. ***later banned prostitution***
Thus, from early on, Konpira's development as an attractive site of worship proceeded in tandem with the popularity of its markets and entertainments. In the phenomenon common to pilgrimates sites in Japan and around the world, Mt. Zozu and its gods grew amid a bustling pilgrimage economy of entertainments and commerce: performances, prostitution, and gambling proved as integral to the growth of the sites as amulets and worship. 3 
The priests of Konkoin catered to such demand for entertainment in order to raise both the income and the status of the sacred domain. In 1688, Yuei (head priest) and his advisers significantly increased the lavishness of the annual festival and procession of Konpira on the tenth day of the tenth month, raising the annual donations collected from nearby villages for the ritual and featuring village leaders in the grand ritual parade. For Yuei's successor Yuzan, ... the hustle and bustle of the town were as important to the well-being of the god and the domain as were the quiet precincts on the mountain. Some time around 1700, following the precedent of the other domainal lords, he commisioned two large, six-paneled folding screens from a painter of the Kano school. 5 (Thal 2005, 74)
Yuzan (priest head?) modeled the attractions of Konpira after the thriving pleasure quarters of Edo not only in entertainment but in worship as well. In 1699, he sought to capitalize upon the growing popularity of the bodhisattva Kannon. For centuries, worshippers had focused on the bodhisattva of compassion mentioned in the Lotus Sutra both on its own and as an attendant of Amdida, the buddha of the Pure Land, making it one of the most popular dieties in Japan. Poiltically, then, Kannon united the Pure Land traditions of the Takamatsu lords with the Lotus Sutra faith still evident in Mt. Zozu's now unnattended Shrine of the Thirty Deities. 
More important for Yuzan,  however, was Kannon's growing renown as the object of the lucrative popular cult. In 1647, crowds of people had converged upon the Asakusa temple in Edo, marking the rise of the Asakusa Kannon as an  important focus of popular worship in the shogun's capital. In 1654, Asakusa held its first kaicho - a grand display of the sacred image, held aproximately every thirty-three years thereafter - to raise money for the temple. (Thal 2005, 75)


##### Modeled the worship after the popular Kannon
The priests of Konkoin built in provincial Konpira a miniature centter of prayer, entertainment, and commerce akin to the attractions of the shogun's capital.... The proceeds of the pilgrimage business also paid for the services (Thal 2005, 76)

##### incentives for regional lords
The reasons for the Takamatsu daimyo's involvement were clear. Before 1648, Mt. Zozu occupied a prominent place in his domain both topographically (on the highest mountain in the Sanuki plain) and politically, as a focal point of the activities of his predecessors: first the Tosa invader Chosokabe Motochika, then the Ikoma lords, and finally the founder of the Takamatsu domain, Matsudaira Yorishige. The institutions of Konpira thus legitimized, protected, and enhanced the prestige of the Takamatsu lords. The ties between Konkoin and its Matsudaira sponsors, then, were strong and longstanging. Yet Konpira daigongen did not become identified solely with the Takamatsu lord and domain. Indeed, the preists of Konkoin skillfully exploited the interstices of the Tokugawa order, beginning with the domainal boundaries. (Thal 2005, 76-77)

##### Other lords supported the shrine, donating lanterns. 
the Tadotsu lord - who did not actually live in Tadotsu until 1827 but stayed in Marugame - may have either felt a more personal relationship to Konpira or thought that donations to the deity distinguished him from his more powerful Marugame relative. (Thal 2005, )
##### Lords sent representative pilgrims 
These lords, like the lords of Takamatsu, apparently viewed Konpira Daigongen as a powerful local guardian, good for guaranteeing prosperity as well as safety upon their journeys. (Thal 2005, 77) 
##### Personal and professional reasons for supporting shrines and pilgrimage
The Matsudaira and Kyogoku families, then, became committed surporters of Konpira Daigongen shortly after their arrival in Shikoku. They carried Konpira with them to Osaka and Edo, where they enrshined the deity at their mansions. They supported the development of the pilrimage to Mt. Zozu, facilitating traffic throught the three ports of Takamatsu, Marugame, and Tadotsu, thereby fostering custom for boat operators, innkeepers, fanmakers, and other business in Konpira and their own domains. In effect, their support of Konpira - oustide the formal boundaries of any of the three larger domains - into an expanding network of personal, economic, and ritual relationships. (Thal 2005, 78) ^94a46e




