*Watkins 2008, Japanese Travel Culture- An Investigation of the Links between Early Japanese Pilgrimage and Modern Japanese Travel Behaviour*
#### Restrictions in travel led to pilgrimage becoming an excuse to travel
However, despite the impressive infrastructure that was in place in Tokugawa Japan, government regulations regarding who could travel and for what purpose restricted travel for the common people. These restrictions played a large part in the secularization of pilgrimage and led to it becoming merely an excuse to circumvent the active discouragement of pleasure travel.
The Tokugawa government did not officially recognize the concept of pleasure travel, and, indeed, outwardly discouraged it. For economic and disciplinary reasons, it was considered vital that commoners remained at home working on the land. Tokuhisa (1980) links these constraints to the prevailing Confucian ethics of the time, which supported the idea that free time should be used for work, while “enjoyment for its own sake was frowned upon” (7). In 1721, in a treatise on civil administration, it was stated that “no one of any class should travel without reason” (Kanzaki 1992: 67).
that “no one of any class should travel without reason” (Kanzaki 1992: 67). The only accepted and legitimate reason for travel left to the common people was that of religious pilgrimage, which allowed “activities that might normally be frowned upon as impractical and frivolous” to be “condoned on the basis of their group-oriented, religious nature” (Kato 1994: 54). In reality, therefore, pilgrimage became the ostensible reason behind trips of a more pleasurable and secular orientation. Reader (1993) states that, “besides seeking miracles and salvation, then, there were pilgrims whose primary interest was in seeing places and enjoying themselves, and who travelled in the guise of the pilgrim because this provided legitimate cover for their intents” (123)