真野俊和とローラ・ネンジ(訳). 2002. 「旅･巡礼･遊山―近世参詣事情（英訳版）
#Shinno_2002
#### positive community ties from pilgrimage
The encounter with the hardships of the road came to be regarded as a form of discipline, particularly for young people. It was in the early modern era that the proverb "Send a cherished child on a journcy'' was created. Precisely because of the obstacles and dangers involved, travel took on the character of a rite of passage.
Often people set out on pilgrilnages to lse because it was something expected by their local community. Although it is hard to find detailed evidence of such practices in early modern written records, we may turn to more recent reports of local customs for some examples. (456)

In general, Ise confraternities also served as focal points for community life. In the Aizu area, however, they had a slightly different character. Unlike the typical community-based pilgrimage-by-delegate confraternities of the region, they had more the nature of a voluntary group formed by people sharing the same faith.
People who safely completed the lse pilgrimage together were called lse brothers. 
They would continue to hold confraternity meetings in turns at each other's houses, and were seen as sharing a tie for life, in good times and bad, a tie that was said to be closer than that with relatives and or even immediate family. (459)

#### Pleasure and religion intertwined in Edo period travel
These accounts of actual pilgrimages might make one wonder: Were religion and faith a trivial matter for the general Japanese populace? Could the pursuit of pleasure be the real reason behind their travels? Is this but another example of the often-mentioned religious inconstancy of the Japanese ― who bow before Buddhas and then take pilgrimages to Shinto shrines? The actual situation is rather different, I think. **The accounts seem to me to illustrate the inextricable conjoining of faith and pleasure that constituted the essence of the phenomenon of pilgrimage.** The modern view of religion tends to put a preeminent value on purity of faith and sees pleasure trips and journeys of faith as two incompatible opposites. To yield even a little to the desire for pleasure indicates a lack of seriousness, a corruption of faith. The place that incarnates such religious austerity is the lse shrine of today, overflowing as it is with an aura of purity. 
In the past, however, the relationship between religion and pleasure trips (or sightseeing tours) was not necessarily seen in this light. One might even say that religion was one form of enjoyment. Attending the meeting of the Nenbutsu confraternity or the Kannon confraternity of one's village was not only an expression of faith, but one of the great pleasures of life. **The modern dualistic ethic, with its positing of an opposition between the sacred and the profane, did not exist in that context. This was true also of travel.** We should not forget that for ordinary people the strict regulations hedging in travel meant that religion offered almost the only chance to satisfy their aspiration for tourism in the modern sense. This explains why many travel diaries record stops at famous scenic and historic sites along the way to the temples and shrines being visited. 

These aspects of pilgrimage diaries remind us that for ordinary people of the early modern period pilgrimages to temples and shrines were among other things a wonderful opportunity to satisfy their curiosity and interest in the world outside their immediate environment. (469)