Daimyo makeup
Cambridge 2008
	Although the shape of shogunal authority changed relatively little during the Muromachi period, the emerging daimyo domains underwent fundamental changes, especially in the strength and spread of the lord-vassal relationship that lay at the center of military house organization. From their early appearance as small military lordships in the Muromachi age, the incipient daimyo domains underwent a long process of evolution, changing shape in response to the different political environments that enveloped them. Modern historians have claimed to be able to identify four different types, or stages, of daimyo development, to which they have assigned the names shugo, sengoku, shokuho, and kinsei, each exhibiting progressively greater strength of control from the center.12 Daimyo rule exhibited many regional differences at the start. Hayami Akira makes a case for the existence of three regional zones of economic development: (i) the developed central Kinai region surrounding the capital city; (2) the middle fringe area surrounding Kinai, particularly the provinces of Omi and Mikawa; and (3) the Kantd, or eastern provinces.13 It was the middle fringe area that, being able to profit from....
	This is not to say that those who lived in the han were not conscious of higher forms of authority. Above the han was the Tokugawa bakufu, presided over by a shogun from whom every daimyo, or han chief, derived his legitimacy. One step beyond that again stood the emperor and his court, powerless in fact but nevertheless the symbolic fount of all authority, even that of the bakufu itself. Yet to most people living in the han - the farmers, craftsmen, shopkeepers, servants, day laborers, and fishermen - shogun and emperor would have been little more than abstractions, dimly perceived and of no immediate relevance. The samurai class, being both educated and traveled to an extent denied other sections of society, would have known of these more exalted bodies - would perhaps have had some degree of personal contact with one or other of them at some time - but for most of them, too, their han was paramount. (Cambridge 183)

Why the han did not have full power over peasants can be seen in how they reacted in the agricultural sector
	Agriculture, by becoming more varied, had also grown more profitable, but the han (and the bakufu too, for that matter) seemed unable to take advantage of it.
	Agriculture, by becoming more varied, had also grown more profitable, but the han (and the bakufu too, for that matter) seemed unable to take advantage of it. It is tempting to ascribe such administrative lacunae to ignorance, inertia, or even to some impermeable precommercial innocence, and indeed all of these elements may have played a part in the initial failure of the han to react constructively to changes in economic life. But there was another important element involved as well. For all their authority over the common people - who were, after all, dragooned into goningumi, or joint responsibility groups, in which all were held hostage for the good behavior of their fellows, and therefore theoretically totally responsive to direction - very few han administrations were strong enough to do as they pleased. This was particularly so in matters of taxation. Any intensification of taxes, whether in their rate, their incidence, or even their administration, was likely to be opposed. The first stage of such opposition took the form of argument, in which one of two lines might be pressed. One approach was to label any variation from former practice a departure from precedent and therefore, by definition, a breach of faith. The other was to draw attention to nearby han where things were done differently, and rather better. Given the complicated map of Tokugawa Japan, where han, portions of han, and fragments of bakufu land lay cheek by jowl, it was never difficult to point to some neighbor who, under a different administration, was receiving more favorable treatment. Because precedent was so valued and because there was so much local variation, either of these gambits could be effective.86 If they should fail, then farmers could turn to more emphatic measures. They could, for example, desert their farms en masse, as they did in Shonai in 1632, when large numbers trooped across the han border into Akita rather than submit to a new (and presumably more accurate) land survey, or as 3,000 farmers from Takato han did in 1654 in protest against administrative "tyranny." (215)

They didn't want to create a situation where the peasants would revolt and the bakufu had to step in, as they might incur damage
	Of course, in all but the very largest demonstrations, the han had the military force needed to restore order. They often did so and frequently none too gently; it was not unknown for protest leaders to be beheaded for their pains, as a warning to future malcontents.9" But nevertheless, the relationship between han officals and peasants was a particularly delicate one. Any dispute, if mishandled, could well bring about such turmoil that the bakufu would be compelled to intervene, in which case the daimyo and his officials might not go unscathed. Koriki Takanaga lost his domain at Shimabara and Yashiro Tadataka his at Hojo in precisely such circumstances. (216)


Root of han's lack of power is the delicate structure of the Tokugawa bakufu/han balance, and how bakufu recognized peasant's rights.
	Peasant protest was possible because the bakufu had recognized as early as 1603 that peasants, no matter where they lived, had certain rights, among them the right to formal complaint and the right to desert their fields and move elsewhere, if necessary.92 Subsequently, after experiencing difficulties of its own in this regard, the bakufu was to regret its magnanimity, but the principle still remained. Once confronted by a determined peasant opposition, han often found it politic to compromise, even to back down, rather than risk a prolonged, costly, embarrassing, and potentially damaging dispute. **The fact was that han needed their peasants and needed them, moreover, to be reasonably healthy and moderately content.** Few daimyo would have (216)
	disagreed with Ikeda Mitsumasa of Okayama han, who in 1655 spoke of his concern that "the peasants should be robust and devote themselves to their agriculture."93 Twenty-odd years later, **officials in Fukuyama han were warning of exhaustion among the peasantry and urging that they be allowed adequate opportunity for relaxation** 94. (217)
	No matter how greatly this had contributed to the stability and coherence of han governments, it had robbed them of their commanding position in the countryside. Village affairs were now left almost completely in the care of the headmen, themselves farmers and therefore subject to precisely the same pressures as their fellows were. Consequently they reacted to their freedom by underreporting yields, by neglecting to register freshly cultivated land, and by concealing the extent of rural commerce. (218)