
Did not create a new permit system to adjust for increase in travelers ^a93008

Political authorities idealized a society where peasants remained fixed on the land, and thus they did not create a permit system meant to accommodate large numbers of travelers. The apparent result was a cumbersome system for obtaining permission to travel that they were never able to fully enforce. Vaporis 1994, 172 ^554d41

perhaps not readily apparent because their efforts were often reactive, government officials did attempt to create a system that would work…..even with that change, the system still could not fully accommodate the numbers of men and women wanting to travel. It appears that it was for this reason that the bakufu allowed religious institutions and landlords in urban areas, and religious institutions and village officials in rural areas, to issue permits for pilgrimages or trips to therapeutic hot springs. We say that government authorities "allowed" permit-issuing authority to devolve to a lower level because they almost never came out strongly against the practice. But why they failed to supervise or oversee the system leaves us puzzled. The one attempt to reverse the process made by the bakufu in the I8Jos, requiring that all permits issued by village officials and religious institutions be coauthorized by intendants, seems like a shot in the dark to assume control over a process with which it had theretofore not seemed overly concerned. In the domains, too, there is evidence that officials tried to make their permit systems more realistic by simplifying application procedures. This was done to encourage commoners to apply for travel permits, rather than to leave home without them on nukemairi. Vaporis 1994, 173