Rite of passage, increase experience

## 通過儀礼, Rite of passage

江戸時代の上層農民の余暇と旅行

[https://cir.nii.ac.jp/crid/1390572174868851456](https://cir.nii.ac.jp/crid/1390572174868851456)

"This paper examines the aspects of travelling in a rural community and the meaning of leisure in the Edo period when the **labor and the leisure were not yet separated,** using a chronicle kept by the Damao family (玉尾家）as a historical text. The Damao family members participated with great interests in various religious festivals hosted by the neighboring shrines and the Buddhist temples. Differing from the modern time divided into two area such as labor and leisure, religious rituals and secular festivals, the Edo religious activities of the shrines and the temples were closely related to the commoners' leisure time activities. This became even true, considering that the sumptuary legislation by the Edo Shogunate forced the commoners to pursue religious outlook to justify their leisurely activities. The exhibition of a Buddhist image of a Bibul (a Buddhist statue not usually shown to the public) and the plays such as, Kabuki, Noh, and Sumo, all offered enjoying and refreshing moments to the commoners before they returned to the daily routine. The Damao family made it their ritual to visit the Ise Shrine, the most popular attraction site, during the childhood accompanying the father or brothers. Especially in the case of a male heir of the family upon reaching the age of thirty, he would leave the hometown going on a long-distance trip. This custom was to offer him a golden opportunity to experience human relationship beyond the locality and to broaden his views on worldly businesses. As shown from the Damaos case, **a long-distance trip of the Edo period was considered to be important rite of passage which an individual should go through in his life."**