Safe & convenient road conditions ^379e39
	In the merchant writer Saikaku's words, Japan had become a "well-governed land where the sword remains forever sheathed and peace reigns eternal."11 Wadare was over, and even the danger from highwaymen and pirates that threatened travelers in earlier times is nowhere evident in Tokugawa travel diaries. The only fear that any Tokugawa wayfarer seems to have expressed was that of wolves. 12. This is not to say that highway crime no longer existed, 13 but rather that the possibility of incurring physical harm or violent death on the road does not appear to have restrained Tokugawa travelers. (Vaporis 1994, 220)

Safety increased 
	Nobunaga widened the roads and abolished the barriers (sekisho) throughout the areas over which he extended his control. Hideyoshi continued this project, eliminating the bandits who lived outside the law and were the major fear of the travelers along the highways (Bresler 1975:65–8, 71–2). With this, traveling, and pilgrimage in particular, increased critically. When the Tokugawa came to power, the highways were reorganized and maintained to an unprecedented degree. (Traganou 2004, 14)

Infrastructure changes
	The Tokugawa organized the infrastructure in a systematic way, institutionalizing what had previously been the function of religious leaders— yamabushi in the case of Buddhist and oshi in the case of Shintō—who had assumed an active role in infrastructural maintenance and in guiding travelers.9 Infrastructural work was now undertaken by the government in a unified manner, through this did not mean that the work of the religious leaders ended; quite the contrary, as traveling became easier their and other local agents’ services became more needed. Along the highways post-stations (shuku) were established at equal distances, from an average of 2.131 ri in the case of Tōkaidō to 1.33 ri in the case of Nakasendō, offering lodging and other travel facilities (Plate 8).10 Between them, middle stages (ai no shuku) and tea-houses (chaya) were established at shorter intervals. The provision of highway infrastructure included the building of bridges, the development of water-crossing facilities, the positioning of distance-markers (ichirizuka) at every ri (3.927 km), as well as stone-paving and planting roadside pine-trees. At each post-station an official mediator called ton’ya coordinated and checked transportation of goods, people and the use of horses. (Traganou 2004, 14)

Reason for changes was official mobility
	The main aim behind the Tokugawa’s emphasis on infrastructure was to facilitate official mobility, not recreational traveling. Thus various facilities made traveling easier on one hand, while necessary difficulties that would allow for control of mobility were maintained. The major points of control were the barriers, where passports were examined (Traganou 2004, 14)

Post stations
	The permissible length of a traveler’s stay at a post-station was limited to just one night: leisurely sightseeing in the towns along the highways was not encouraged, and every person who stayed at an inn was required to record his name and place of residence in the register. (15)

Speed of travel
	The Tōkaidō ran from Nihonbashi in Edo to Sanjō bridge in Kyoto (Figure 1). Traveling time between these two locations was reduced from 91 days in the period of the Taika reform (645) to 12–15 days by 1223, a speed that was maintained throughout the Edo period, with the exception of the much-faster courier system.13 In 1604 the width of the Tōkaidō was set to 5 ken. (16)

No barriers between settlements
	The Tōkaidō included less mountainous parts in comparison with other roads and, at some places, there was almost no distance between its post-stations, which expanded in both directions, a condition that was facilitated by the absence of fortifications around Japanese settlements ( 17)