 image of wander crucial to travel boom ^1196a3

economic changes not enough to warrant travel boom (Blacker 1984)
	I suggest that it is to this ancient figure, and to the archetypal 'image' that he projects on Japanese minds, that we must first look for an answer to our question. (594)
	The wanderer is therefore a sacral figure, a vehicle for a divinity…. Theyugyosha is on the contrary a holy figure, the vehicle or messenger of a god, kami no shisha, even himself a disguised god and dispenser of blessings. (597)
	This archetypal traveller, familiar though he may have been for so many centuries, is a figure essentially outside society. He is not only outside the social order; he carries, too, the implication of being not fully human. (602)
	First, the pilgrim assumes, during the short period of his journey, the same ambivalence that we have seen in the taboo figure of the wanderer. He, too, is either a disguised god or a polluted outcast. He, too, is outside the social order. (603)
	Earlier we saw that travel was made easier during the Edo period by the improved roads and hostelries and the disappearance of pirates and toll gates. It was, however, hindered by other obstacles: the increasingly harassing restrictions imposed by the han authorities on a custom which appeared in their eyes frivolous, useless, extravant and immoral…. By absenting themselves for several weeks to walk to Ise, the farmers neglected their proper duty and caused a fall in production. Some han seemed to have raised no objection if farmers chose the nokanki or idle period of year, after the annual tax had been paid, for their journey. (604)
	By abandoning their proper tasks they were failing in their duty as human beings, flouting the moral way which it was part of their humanity to follow. It follows that the pilgrim has deliberately put himself beyond the pale of human society. He is a temporary outcast, and hence endowed with all the attributes of the outcast. He is dirty, contaminated, 'other'. (605)

Perspective of pilgrims to commoners
	To the han authorities the henro may have seemed dirty and lazy dropouts, playing no useful part in proper human society and hence constituting a threat to its good order and stability. To the people in the villages through which the pilgrims passed, however, a very different image was presented. To them the pilgrims appeared as potential disguised divinities. (605-606)
	Because the pilgrim might be Kobo Daishi in disguise. (606)
	Both faces of the ambivalence, the divinity and the outcast, are outside human society. They are not part of the intricate web of relationships by which men and women in the Edo period were joined together. They were outside and irrelevant to thegorin or Five Relations, by which Neo-Confucian doctrine sought to order the society proper to human beings. The ascetic wanderer acknowledged no feudal lord, and had cut his ties with his parents, his wife, his elder and younger brothers and his friends. Nor was he part and parcel of the Four Orders, samurai, farmers, craftsmen and merchants, which formed the layers of the vertical society essential to the Edo human cosmos. Without an occupation recognized as part of the human world, without the moral ties, either above or below, which placed him in a context necessary to a fully human life, he was a being from another world. Once outside, once relegated to that strange space which has no structure or familiar pattern, which is an unmeasurable unknown, then it is only too easy for a man to slip from one face of the ambivalence to the other. The disguised divinity may, with only a hairbreadth movement, turn into the polluted outcast. (607)




*Ishimori 1995, Tourism and Religion : From the Perspective of Comparative Civilization*
	religion and tourism opposite ends of human behavior: sacred/profane
	But have the same elements of transcending everyday, fear and fascination
	"Gorai's definition of religion as "a means to transcend everyday life," and Otto's as "the perception of Ntzminose." (Ishimori 1995, 12)

Perhaps because of Christian's linking
	"Gorai Shigeru, a scholar of religious studies, states that the original meaning of religion is "an activity by which one attempts to transcend everyday life" [GoRAi 1989]. He finds this original essence in "living nowhere and everywhere" (issho .fttzaD, the concept of wandering central to believers of the "Walking religion. " According to the belief of the ancient Japanese, deities and spirits moved around constantly, appearing in visible form only on occasion. These deities and spirits actually moved around and appeared in natural forms in many different places. Moreover, all ancient holy men traveled with these supernatural beings. Thus they saw the pilgrimage as a way to absorb the supernatural powers to heal and to perform miracles and magics; however, when religion became institutionalized, they no longer practiced this "walking religion." As temples and shrines were built, and religion became increasingly fixed by dogmas and sects, the so-called "non-walking - v7 religion came into being." (Ishimori 1995, 11)
	institutionalized religions saw religious wandering as heresy, but popular among masses. e.g, Ippen was iewed as heretic by aristocracy and religious establishments, but popular among commoners
Because anyone can pilgrimage?
	"kaichO is the opening of a temple sanctuary for a limited time to allow the general public to view important Buddhist images to which they are ordinarily denied acess. This practice originated in the initiation of believers into a certain temple, but later it was undertaken for the purpose of raising money for temple repairs and maintenance. During the Edo period, the Tokugawa Shogunate decreased the amount of financial assistance to temples in an effort to tighten control over religious policies. The need to compensate for this lost assistance drove many temples to apply for permission to host events to collect donations from the general public." (Ishimori 1995, 14)