
### Bafuku loses harshness, trend toward laxity ^ef28d4
- system of benevolent ruler who serves the people
- fear of peasant resistance

#Cambridge 
#### bakufu governing in tandem with daimyo 
The present consensus among historians is that government organization during the Edo period was the consequence of the evolution of two political systems: the shogunal system of national control and the daimyo system of local control. Both of these aspects of government were necessary and mutually dependent. In other words, the hegemonic power ultimately acquired by the shogun rested significantly on the ability of the daimyo who made up the shogun's vassal band to assert effective command over their provincial domains. These in fact accounted for no less than three-quarters of the national land base. **The shogun, although in possession of the remaining one-quarter, was not prepared to abolish the daimyo and take on the administration of the entire country through a private officer corps.** ( Cambridge 2008, 8)

#### Can't be compared to European counterparts
As shown in the chapter by Wakita Osamu, so distinctive are the bakuhan and kokudaka systems, so difficult to compare with other historical models, particularly European, that the use of feudalism as an explanatory device has become less attractive. (Cambridge 2008, 8)


#### Ruling class's responsibility in bringing peace and harmony to the people
Shogun and daimyo, leaders of the bushi assemblage, were not unmindful of the burden created by the size of the bushi estate. The three unifiers vigorously cultivated new forms of justification and legitimation for themselves and for the samurai as a body. During the years of active fighting, the aspiring unifiers matched their military exploits with the acquisition of lands and official titles that served to justify their acts of military aggression. Hideyoshi, as national hegemon, came to rely heavily on the symbolic support of the Kyoto court. Referring to their status as kogi, **the unifiers took the high moral stand that acknowledged the responsibility of superior government to serve the needs of the common people**. Ikeda Mitsumasa, daimyo of Bizen, could write in 1652 that the common people were placed under the care of the samurai officialdom. "The shogun receives authority over the people of Japan as a trust from heaven. The daimyo receives authority over the people of the province as a trust from the shogun. The daimyo's councilors and retainers should aid the daimyo in **bringing peace and harmony to the people**."15 
*Ikeda Mitsumasa, in Ishii Ryosuke, ed., Hamposhu vol. i , doc. 335 (Horeishu, sec. 36). An English translation may be found in John Whitney Hall, Government and Local Power 5oo to 1700: A Study Based on Bizen Province (Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1966), p. 403.*
Asao Naohiro, in his contribution to this volume, explains how concepts like tenka and kogi, or the evocation of **Confucian precepts of benevolent rule**, set the contours of the larger polity within which shogun and daimyo claimed rightful places. Not since the eighthcentury adoption of the Chinese institutions of imperial government had Japan been ruled under as comprehensive a system of laws and administrative procedures, and historians have been quick to expand on its significance.

#### Fear of resistance below (daimyo and bakufu)
Ultimately the daimyo system won out over its competitors in the countryside, but not without certain conspicuous consequences. The movement of nearly the entire body of rural samurai into castle towns that served as daimyo headquarters was occasioned in part by the attraction that service under the daimyo could offer to the samurai class. But it is equally true that withdrawal of the samurai from the countryside was motivated by defensive considerations as well. In the provinces, small-sized military proprietors found that submission to the armies of larger regional hegemons could be the lesser of evils. They preferred to accept the command of a rising military lord rather than face possible destruction at the hands of a militant popular religious uprising. The so-called sword hunts, katanagari, that were carried out at various times - first by individual daimyo and later under the command of Hideyoshi - was evidence of the fear that members of the samurai class who still lived in the village environment had of the possibility of losing out to militant mass attacks. (Cambridge 14)

#### System of mutual dependence
Rather than destroy the daimyo, the unifiers found themselves heavily reliant on them, for both military support and field administration. Hideyoshi, in particular, made every effort to win over opposing daimyo by compromise rather than a fight to the finish. This mutual dependence was to remain an integral part of the bakuhan system throughout the Edo period. The bakuhan system was the result of processes that had been under (Cambridge p14) way well before the appearance of the Tokugawa shogunate. (15)

#### Policies made to separate classes?
One of the most significant consequences of the reforms adopted by the unifiers was the manner in which society became divided into the separate classes of samurai, hyakusho, chonin, and a number of subclasses. From the early years of the sixteenth century, a growing volume of legislation, especially from the large regional daimyo, began to reflect a conscious effort to define and separate the several classes or estates. The enforcement of the Taiko land survey, the sword hunts, and the census surveys, though motivated primarily by political and economic objectives, had a fundamental impact on social organization and behavior. Today we debate whether the elaborate system of class separation reflected the actual dynamics of the time or whether they were imposed arbitrarily from above. Were they in fact basically repressive, serving primarily the interests of the military aristocracy? Indeed, scholars who view the Hideyoshi settlement as imposing on Japan a revitalized feudal despotism are of such an opinion.21 But the social legislation of the time can be viewed in another light.
As Asao Naohiro points out in this volume, in the course of the drive toward unification, Nobunaga "promoted policies that released society from the restrictions that had fettered the daily lives of the medieval populace."22 Bito Masahide directs his attention to the concept of yaku, or function, that applies to the entire society, defining the expectations that society had for each class, subclass, and group.23 By Tokugawa times this had led to what can be called "rule by status," a condition in which individuals, as long as they remained in their proper place and performed their given roles, were treated impartially under the law and according to precedent.24 Granted, seventeenthcentury social theory did not subscribe to concepts of individual rights or political representation; yet the bakufu, han, and mura governments did provide for dispute resolution and arbitration. Bito Masahide points out that the ie system of family organization offered a mechanism that protected the individual from arbitrary demands from outside the system.

#### Benevolent ruler, dedicated to the people like the emperor
Shogun and daimyo were engaged in a nationwide effort to routinize administrative procedures and to codify basic legal precepts. The first task at hand was the necessary **conversion from military to civil government**. During the 1930s, Kurita Mototsugu developed the classic explanation of how this process benefited from the spread of Confucian philosophy.27 The concept of "benevolent rule" (bunji-seiji), according to Kurita, had helped humanize military government. The conversion of the samurai class into urban-based administrators, as promoted in the first clause of the "Buke shohatto" (ordinances pertaining to the warrior class), was matched by a strenuous enforcement of laws against possession of arms by others than the samurai. And once peace was attained, the bakufu took elaborate means to curtail and regulate the size and armament of the standing forces permitted to the daimyo....
..
The key ingredients in such a polity were, of course, the possession of hegemonic military power and the acquisition of legitimacy as a public authority. As Asao Naohiro explains in his chapter, the sources of legitimacy other than military strength were the symbolism of proximity to the tenno (emperor) and the actual creation of a political and social order that could claim to be dedicated to the good of the people, in other words, the acquisition of the status of kogi. (19)

#### Bakufu leaders sometimes had differing ways of ruling and focus
the Edo bakufu experienced three major attempts at reform. These were Shogun Yoshimune's reform of the Kyoho era (1716-35), the reform pushed by Matsudaira Sadanobu in the Kansei era (1789-99), and that of Mizuno Tadakuni during the Tempo era (1830-44).3° Each of these reforms aimed at specific targets: the extravagance of shoguns like Tsunayoshi and Ienari, the corruption of advisers like Tanuma Okitsugu, or the failure to control the commercial sector and maintain an acceptable level in the price of rice. In other words, **the problems were mainly economic and social,** but they were seen as failures of political leadership.

#### Historians view history differently
Contradictory views of Edo society still divide the scholarly world, both in Japan and the West. But the early simplistic assumptions that the inhabitants of Edo rural society were from beginning to end motivated by fear and hatred have given way to a more realistic analysis in the works of scholars like Sasaki Junnosuke, who place their main emphasis on the spiritual foundations of village solidarity.37 Equally positive in their interpretation of the economic foundations of Edo society are modern economic historians. This group bases its argument on evidence of an agricultural and commercial revolution encouraged by what to them appears to be a remarkable surge of economic growth.38 The effort to quantify this eighteenth-century economic growth has focused on the pattern of population growth. Cambridge 25

#### Confucian element not as important
Much of this recent scholarship has sought to play down the importance of Confucianism as the official ideology of the Edo samurai establishment. A concrete measure of the influence of the Confucian scholar on the Japanese thought world can be found in the status of the Confucian adviser in samurai government. Although shoguns and daimyo patronized Confucianists in their governments, such advisers, known as jusha, were clearly subordinate to the primary interests of samurai government. (Cambridge 28-29)

#### bakufu losing harshness
The bakufu simply did not have - and never seemed anxious to acquire - the number of administrators necessary to govern its own domain. 205
Clearly, it would have required an immense upheaval to replace the han with a totally centralized form of government directed from Edo. Equally clearly, at least after a certain time, the Tokugawa bakufu, though standing to gain most from such a development, appeared to lose interest in the prospect. The death of Tokugawa Iemitsu, the third shogun, in 1651, virtually marked the end of any consistent assault on han prerogatives and responsibilities. Thereafter, Tokugawa authority began to deteriorate and, despite sporadic attempts to revive it, never regained its original impetus.206

#### This meant more freedom for han. overall trend of laxity
**but then why did position toward peasant travel permits unchanging?**
As a result of this neglect, han were able to develop in ways of which the bakufu was to remain ignorant. Land reclamation, which doubled the area of cultivated land in Japan during the Tokugawa period, gave almost every han an income considerably in excess of its formal enfeoffment, but this was allowed to escape official notice. Had the bakufu been so inclined, this vast increase could have served as a pretext for a number of legitimate initiatives: It could have increased its own domain by confiscating reclaimed land, for example, or created new han, or at the very least it could have incorporated these new areas into the formal enfeoffment of each particular han and so provided a more realistic basis for future impositions and military levies. But land reclamation received little formal recognition. Only once, when the Mizuno were transferred from Fukuyama, did the bakufu initiate a new survey and bring hidden productivity out into the open. This done, the bakufu claimed the newly developed land for itself and left what remained to the Mizuno's successors.
There is no doubt that as the flow of information to the bakufu dried up, so did daimyo become much more secure in the possession of their han. Bakufu displeasure, formerly enough to shake the largest han, was no longer quite such a problem, simply because Edo officialdom no longer knew what it ought to be displeased about. Further, such displeasure as it may have felt came to be expressed with far more diffidence than had once been the case. After 1651 daimyo came to be treated with notable forbearance, receiving, in the main, the lightest of reproofs for offenses that would have cost their fathers and grandfathers dearly. Open dissension among one's vassals, a misdemeanor that had cost at least seven daimyo their fiefs in the first fifty years of the Tokugawa period, was now usually punished with a reprimand, or at most a brief period of house arrest; only the really spectacular cases attracted anything more.