Economic: money leaving domain ^f69243

economically motivated
	the primary intent behind the relay system was economic: hence the bakufu's policy of discouraging sea transport, which would have allowed travelers to skip post stations and would reduce the amount of revenue they could raise through provision of transport services. (26)
	regulations dealing with commoner travel were issued frequently and were inspired mainly by economics rather than a desire for totalitarian control…  There were limits to what the state could do to prohibit pilgrimage, which was widely accepted in society as a sacred act, and the evidence shows that the control measures instituted were generally ineffective. .....Perhaps the most common restrictions on any long-distance travel had to do with timing. Since travel during the agricultural season would take a peasant away from the land, in theory decreasing the agricultural output of a village, long-distance travel was generally restricted to the agricultural off-season, after taxes had been collected. (198)
	This illegal traffic was hurting business at Sekigawa and Nojiri, the post stations on either side of the sekisho that travelers bypassed. As a result, some officials from Nojiri apparently disabled or partially dismantled a bridge on the side road to stop the traffic, indicating that there were important economic reasons for travel restrictions.   (190)
	Kaga restricted travel to Hongan-ji in Kyoto to once in a lifetime. The reason authorities cited was the desire to stem the outflow of precious domain resources like gold and silver. (202)
	Most prohibitions occurred from the mid-Tokugawa on, particularly after the turn of the nineteenth century, when fiscal problems worsened for many domains….Reasons given for bans in Yonezawa likewise were related to poor crops, drought, and inflation. (203)
	Daimyo were particularly leery of preventing people from worshipping at Ise; for in the words of Kaiho Seiryo, the late·1'okugawa political economist, such actions would cause the government to "lose the hearts of the people." 204
	The social acceptance of pilgrimage as a religious act as well as a rite of passage to adulthood could obviate the need for a permit, as the evidence on the Ise okagemairi demonstrates; and it could also protect many pilgrims from reprisals from those whose authority they had flouted by leaving without permission. (205)
	Many people ran out of funds while traveling, especially to Ise, but resorted to less extreme measures than Saisaburo, taking out loans in order to return home. Travel could thus set back some people even after they returned home-and a peasant who ruined himself
	financially hurt his domain's economy. (209)
	Officials frequently bent the rules for travelers with defective permits, and sometimes downgraded travel offenses to avoid having to prosecute commoners….The physical and legal barriers erected by the state were insufficient to thwart commoners' desire to travel; although the government continued to keep these barriers in place, they gave their tacit and sometimes explicit approval to travelers who circumvented them (216) ^V-EconomicMotivations