
#Cambridge 
#### Were more concerned with making an advantageous situation, not about keeping one class down
Nobunaga's abolition of toll barriers (sekisho) and his expansion of the road system aided both the military and the merchant class that was taking shape in major cities. The merchants also benefited because the region that first came under Nobunaga's control, with the provinces of Mino, Ise, and Omi at the center, formed a ring of vital nodes in what was emerging as a national distribution network that linked the outlying provinces with the Kinai. Nobunaga also abolished the special privileges of the markets (ichi) and guilds (za) in the main cities in some areas, permitting what were called "free markets" (rakuichi) and "free guilds" (rakuza). **He guaranteed the merchants' freedom to travel and to conduct business without interference.** When the merchants came under his direct control, Nobunaga exempted them from the various imposts that had been exacted from them by different types of proprietary authorities such as court nobles, temples, shrines, and other warriors. These imposts included market taxes, business taxes, urban residential taxes, property taxes, and a variety of assessments that had to be given as "offerings of appreciation" in return for permission to conduct business. While Nobunaga sought to free merchants from such burdensome exactions, he also tried to concentrate commercial activity in the newly emerging castle towns. (Cambridge 57)


#### When benefited him economically and strategically, positively changed lower classes, merchant lowest.
Nobunaga's policies toward the guilds might seem inconsistent, as he abolished some and confirmed the rights of others. But this was done with a purpose. Rather than maintaining a system that relied on the extraction of small-scale cash income from individual merchants in the form of dues, and realizing that the territorial expansion of his authority required that the cities as a whole function as mechanisms for the conversion into cash of vast quantities of taxes collected in kind, he sought to make the cities the supply nodes for military equipment, firearms, ammunition, and the consumer goods needed for the daily lives of his retainers. (Cambridge 58)

#### Saw how leniency ruling was preferable
Nobunaga felt keenly the threat posed by this Ikko ikki, and for that reason he resorted to a strategy of total annihilation. But Nobunaga also realized that a government could not continue to exist through such a destructive policy alone. The alternative that he and his successors chose was to become "men of the realm" (tenka bito) and as such to establish their own authority and legitimacy in terms more acceptable to the people of Japan. (80)

#### Men of the realm
By establishing their authority as men of the realm, Nobunaga and Hideyoshi also opened up the possibility for the daimyo lords under them to fashion a concept of public authority that they could employ to govern the people below them. Within their domains the daimyo ruled with the legitimacy of state authority and not simply as private entities that used force to compel obedience. Through Hideyoshi, the daimyo were even given rank in the court system. As a result, their jurisdiction over their own territories was recognized as official, their position as public lords confirmed. Now, for the first time the daimyo could use concepts of state and public authority to maintain their claims to hold proprietary lordships, and with time they were able to confront the general populace of the provinces and districts as autonomous public persons. (83)