#### Did not create a new permit system to adjust for increase in travelers, but did have reactionary changes VAPORIS ^a93008

#### Requirements for travel not restrictive
These economic requirements for travel were general conditions established by private domains and bakufu authorities. But, if we look closely at the requirements, they are not as strict as they appear, for they did not interfere with the flow of life. Not many responsible households would leave on an expensive journey with work to be done in the fields or with taxes unpaid. Consequently, these regulations seem to have been aimed more at commoners who would be more inclined to drop everything at a moment's notice to go on pilgrimage-servant personnel, temporary workers, and tenants. ....   Early in the Tokugawa period pilgrimage retained much of the pure religious content it had in medieval Japan. But pilgrimage gradually developed as a form of recreation; pilgrims spent more time sightseeing on the way to and from the main pilgrimage site. As this happened, domains established regulations to try to curtail the length of travel. Limiting travel time, of course, decreased the amount of time a peasant would be away from his fields as well as the amount of money he would drain from the domain through travel expenditures (Vaporis 1994, 199)

#### Permit system not meant to accommodate peasant travelers
Political authorities idealized a society where peasants remained fixed on the land, and thus they did not create a permit system meant to accommodate large numbers of travelers. The apparent result was a cumbersome system for obtaining permission to travel that they were never able to fully enforce. Vaporis 1994, 172 ^554d41

#### Travel permits obtained indiscriminately while on one's journey
defeated the primary purpose for which they were intended: that is, to provide a guarantee for the traveler's identity and behavior. Nevertheless, goverx:tment authorities did not come out strongly against the practice…It is clear that in many parts of the country, particularly in the north, travelers without permits could obtain passage through domain barriers, and at least some bakufu sekisho, for a fee. In some cases the money went towards the purchase of a permit, while in others the fee charged was in effect a toll. In this respect, Tokugawa barriers resembled those of the Middle Ages.69 In either case, however, it amounted to the same thingthe undermining of a control system  (Vaporis 1994, 196)

#### Did not do anything to stop village and temple permit issuing Vaporis
perhaps not readily apparent because their efforts were often reactive, government officials did attempt to create a system that would work…..even with that change, the system still could not fully accommodate the numbers of men and women wanting to travel. It appears that it was for this reason that the bakufu allowed religious institutions and landlords in urban areas, and religious institutions and village officials in rural areas, to issue permits for pilgrimages or trips to therapeutic hot springs. We say that government authorities "allowed" permit-issuing authority to devolve to a lower level because they almost never came out strongly against the practice. But why they failed to supervise or oversee the system leaves us puzzled. The one attempt to reverse the process made by the bakufu in the I8Jos, requiring that all permits issued by village officials and religious institutions be coauthorized by intendants, seems like a shot in the dark to assume control over a process with which it had theretofore not seemed overly concerned. **In the domains, too, there is evidence that officials tried to make their permit systems more realistic by simplifying application procedures. This was done to encourage commoners to apply for travel permits, rather than to leave home without them on nukemairi**. Vaporis 1994, 173


travelers commonly covered 40 kilometers a day Vaporis 1994, 200

#### Western Japan permitting longer pilgrimages
Domains in western Japan generally permitted relatively long periods of time for pilgrimage, which, judging by actual travel times, allowed extra time for sightseeing… In contrast, a number of eastern domains were strict with time limits, but gradually relaxed them…. It is difficult to know to what we should attribute the fact that western domains were more generous than eastern ones. It could indicate a more lenient attitude in regulating the peasantry in Western Japan, or reflect the superior economic position of the populace in western domains. Time limits for eastern domains might have been gradually raised in an attempt to limit the length of trips of persons no longer obeying regulations. Or they could, instead, be seen as a reaction to better economic conditions. Vaporis 1994, 200

Nevertheless, the fact that punishment for abrogating time limits was rare lends support to the proposition that, with the generally improving economic conditions, Tokugawa commoners traveled more often and on longer journeys; and regulations tried to keep pace with that trend. Vaporis 1994, 200-201

To this end, copies of the Shikoku and Saikoku (Thirty!fhree Kannon Temple) circuits, as well as other popular pilgrimage routes and sites, W!'!re made within individual domains. The Aizu daimyo, for example, built an Ise Shrine, a Kumano Shrine, and a Thirty!fhree-Kannon Temple circuit right at home. A copy of the Saikoku or Western circuit was even created in the bakufu-controlled city of Osaka during the Genroku era. Together with establishing these would-be diversions, daimyo also tried to convince the people that worshipping outside the domain would mean that the local kami, or deities, were being neglected. Vaporis 1994, 202

Vaporis 1994
Tokugawa and their fellow daimyo idealized a society where most of the population remained tied to the land. Thus, to see sekisho only in terms of the alternate attendance system is to overlook the general conditions of social fluidity and unrest in the early decades of the Tokugawa era. … the Tokugawa [travel permit] system appears to have been the most developed. 136
###### The eventual emergence of passports points to the growing popularity of travel, and reflects an easing of restrictions on commoner travel as well as the increasing ability of commoners to circumvent barriers erected to check their physical mobility
Example:
Like many urban dwellers across the country, Kita and Yaji obtained
their passports to travel on pilgrimage from their family temple, where their identities were on record. Being tenants, they also could have obtained them from their landlord; but since they owed him money, it is doubtful that he would have agreed. They paid a "contribution" of xoo copper coins (mon) to the temple and left a small offering of rice in exchange for their permits. 138
In Edo, however, up until 1659, all urban women were required to apply to the Keeper of Edo Castle (orusut), the officer in charge of Edo during the shogun's absence from the city. The 1659/6 order that changed this requirement created a unified system for commoners of both sexes.7 By allowing commoner women in Edo to obtain their permits from the City Magistrate, a lower ranking official, the bakufu greatly accelerated the application process. 138
..
in simplifying the procedures, they were reacting to the reality around them; and they tried to modify the application process to reflect that reality more closely. 141
..
Thus, for most male travelers, sekisho in themselves do not appear to have been a barrier to their mobility.166
..
It was because of the unsettling experience these women might encounter at major sekisho such as Hakone, Usui, Arai, and Kiso Fukushima that they sometimes sought alternate routes.167 less severe inspections
Political authorities idealized a society where peasants remained fixed on the land, and thus they did not create a permit system meant to accommodate large numbers of travelers. The apparent result was a cumbersome system for obtaining permission to travel that they were never able to fully enforce.172

#### Governments' efforts were reactionary
perhaps not readily apparent because their efforts were often reactive, government officials did attempt to create a system that would work…..even with that change, the system still could not fully accommodate the numbers of men and women wanting to travel. It appears that it was for this reason that the bakufu allowed religious institutions and landlords in urban areas, and religious institutions and village officials in rural areas, to issue permits for pilgrimages or trips to therapeutic hot springs. We say that government authorities "allowed" permit-issuing authority to devolve to a lower level because they almost never came out strongly against the practice. But why they failed to supervise or oversee the system leaves us puzzled. The one attempt to reverse the process made by the bakufu in the I8Jos, requiring that all permits issued by village officials and religious institutions be coauthorized by intendants, seems like a shot in the dark to assume control over a process with which it had theretofore not seemed overly concerned. In the domains, too, there is evidence that officials tried to make their permit systems more realistic by simplifying application procedures. This was done to encourage commoners to apply for travel permits, rather than to leave home without them on nukemairi. Vaporis 1994, 173